I agree, it is awkward when people make jokes about subjects which may not be funny at all.
And, if a person only jokes, then after laughing and realizing the person has nothing of themselves to offer, this can also be quite tedious.
Realize that you are more aware of human interaction having many levels of expression.
You could start avoiding people who irritate you by the way they behave.
In order for your friend to forgive you she'd need to trust you understand the damage you introduced into her relationship with her friend.
Its possible if you offer your friend expressions of your empathy toward her over an extended time, possibly she'll forgive you.
You're certainly learning relationship lessons on how to treat people and the effect of betraying another person, which will last forever.
Maybe this was meant to be the outcome.
This takes time.
I don't know how long it has been, but perhaps if your friend is willing to discuss other things with you for a little while, you could discuss this at some point in the future.
Hopefully the true intentions will become apparent (in the idea that it was a prank).
Also, I encourage you to look at how this is affecting you and how you feel about yourself as well.
If it was meant to be a joke and it did not work, that is not entirely your fault.
I wonder how you could forgive yourself for what happened?
Are you able to seek what you meant to do compared to what actually happened?
Do you notice that not everything that has happened here is in your control?
Do you recognize that even though you would like things to be better, if your friend is not ready or willing, you are trying to do your part to make it right?
Maybe everyone who is/was involved in this can talk together all at the same time to set straight what is truth and what was misunderstood.
I wonder if you can think of your own positive attributes (for example: honesty, compassion, trustworthiness, friendship, good listener, caring) and look at what truly exists within you rather than just one your friend is able to see right now.
This can be really difficult for multiple reasons, not the least of which is that it involves more than just you, so it's important to focus on the idea that you can ask these other people who were involved to discuss it, but that is ultimately up to them.
Best wishes for looking at the positive parts of yourself and your friendships.
You may intuitively be sensing what many professionals in the social sciences and psychology have already understood.
Just Google "psychopaths and leadership" and many articles come up about boardroom politics and that psychopaths are very successful in these roles.
Theoretically, is it terrible that corporate leadership qualities match those of psychopaths?
Well, yes.
And, I consider your question as a mark of your sensitive awareness toward other people.
Being able to recognize social dynamics, is a strength that you have.
Psychopaths know how to be charming and to twist words so that others believe that their own interest is the same as the psychopath's.
I agree with you about not being able to change people's minds who are attached to this person's interactions.
The only way you can introduce a change in the relationship system of a psychopath is that if you are aware of illegal or law breaking activity, and you have evidence of this, that you contact relevant authorities.
No one is allowed to break laws, including psychopaths.
It doesn't really matter what the actual diagnosis is, and whether or not he is an actual psychopath, he has manipulated and lied to you, and that is enough reason for you to stay far away from him.
Men (and women) with these characteristics can become violent.
They can also make your life difficult by creating financial or legal trouble for you.
Again, forget about him, and contact the police if you think he is in a position to harm others.
I understand the feeling of not being liked due to not having any responses on the sites you list.
More than likely the non-response has less to do with liking you than w liking the way you write your messages.
Have you tried asking a question in your posts?
This would be one way to invite people to answer your post.
When you write, imagine yourself as the reader of the post.
If you think about the wording of a question which would motivate you to respond, then this formula will very likely be the same for many others who read your post.
Good luck!
Sorry to hear your friends aren't responding to you.
If these friends are in-person as well as online, perhaps going to them in person and asking talking to them about your concern.
Perhaps it's the way you send messages or the way they are receiving them.
if they say no, then a simple request to respond to your messages.
Measure the result and notice if there are even small differences.
Also understand, why this is so important to you.
Ask yourself, why it's so important for you to receive these messages from friends.
What does it mean when they don't respond.
I'm sorry that you are having a difficult time.
I wonder about how your friendships are in person.
If you get along well with people and have effective conversations with them face-to-face, there could be some kind of technology-related problem.
Have you tried gently talking to people about how you send a message and they didn't answer?
If you can phrase it in such a way that they recognize that you are asking for information and not blaming them for not answering you, that could be effective.
I'd also encourage you to consider how much this is bothering you.
If it is causing a significant amount of anxiety (say, more than 5/10 if 10 is really anxious), I would suggest talking with a local therapist.
In the meantime, consider talking about this with someone you trust to whom you can get more details to get a more specific answer.
Sorry to hear of your problem situation.
Feeling intimidated by another person is very unsettling.
Stop having contact with the person.
Bullies only interact with others either by intimidating someone or by themselves feeling intimidated by someone.
Bullies do not have the same dynamics as everyone else.
No one can convince or persuade or talk a bully out of their behavior.
The best protection for yourself, assuming you are not being physically threatened by the person, is to close contact with them.
This does not take away any of the disappointment or sadness of wishing for a better relationship with the person.
Until the bully wants to interact differently with others, only harm can result from contact with them.
Step one is to stop the bleeding, then to assess and learn to live with not having the person in your life.
One thing I would ask is "why are you still hanging with those {friends}?
A relationship needs to be nurtured by both parties, it is a dynamic fluctuation between two people.
I would ask you to question why you continue to remain together as friends, I always believed that a relationship should emit positivity towards all parties involved, if your in a relationship that is one-sided, it is inevitable that it will start to de-compensate.
Never travel with the circus, never travel with fools, everything in life should have some positive payout, will things at times be negative, of course they will, but in order to keep something or someone in your life there should be more positivity than negativity.
Interpersonal relationship (either positive or negatives) need to or more persons who give and receive: attention, dedication, time and communication.
But what makes friendships special is that they last trough time, at least with those who we call our true friends, those who know us well and whom we have a special connection and those from whom we disconnect at times, without fear of losing them.
Consider what is that you are going trough yourself and with your relationship, talk to your friend about your concern; let him (her) know that you would like to spend more time together.
Plan an activity that you both enjoy or try to discover a new hobby.
If your friend is not enthusiastic or engaged, give him (her) some time and focus your energy spending time with other friends or enjoying activities in solitude.
After a waiting period, call again to let your friend know how you are and that you are still a friend.
If you continue feeling rejected, analyze why you value this relationship so much and consider if it's worth to maintain it.
It sounds like you would like to let other people get close to you and at the same time you are finding yourself compelled to keep people at a distance.
Often times, when we have difficulty trusting others, it is because we have specific fears about what would happen if we get close or let our guard down.
Such fears may be rooted in past experiences in relationships in which we were hurt and or disappointed.
In working with a therapist, you can gain insight into what is underneath your compulsion to put walls around yourself and develop ways to form authentic, lasting, satisfying relationships with others.
How did you find out that the girls aren't happy with their dresses?
Did you hear this directly from one of them or is this third hand information that someone else told you about one of the girls in your party?
The answer matters because gossiping instead of directly telling you about a problem, is a problem in itself.
I suggest a conversation with the entire group of girls in which you tell them how you actually are feeling about their opinions about the dresses.
One topic you may consider bringing up is what everyone expects to get out of the party.
Are they coming because they like one another and wearing a dress in which the girl is happy, is only one way of having fun together?
I hope you'll have a fun party!
"Staying present is an attitude most of us aspire to, and most of us have to work at it certainly at first.
I'm here to tell you that living in the now or being mindful is a skill anyone can learn.
Unfortunately, the only way to do it is to do it.
What a paradox!
But there are plenty of other skills that we are not born with: walking on stilts, riding a bike, swimming, and driving a car are good examples.
You can't learn them by reading about them.
Having said that, I can recommend two books on the subject: Eckhart Tolle's The Power of Now and David Richo's When the Past is Present.
Richo asks that we don't beat ourselves up about dwelling on past events.
This is nature's way of reminding us that we have unfinished business.
But while we are attended to the wounds and confusion that litter our earlier lives, we can prepare to inhabit the expanded present that awaits us.
He offers three helpful steps to making any important life change: Step One: Hold in awareness the behavior, belief, attitude, or characteristic you want to change in yourself and how you want to be different.
Awareness is the opposite of distraction and stuffing.
Step Two: Live as if you have already made the change.
(This is hard and takes courage, but you can do it.
Ride that bike even if for a foot or two)Step Three: Be persistent.
Just as two-year-olds are able to walk confidently after hundreds of hours of practice, you'll be able to stay in the here and now as long as you want after trying and failing many, many times.
Would you describe yourself as sensitive to your surroundings and emotions?
If yes, this may explain why letting go of past problems, is itself a problem.
The dynamic of living one day at a time and letting go of past problems, is more imaginary and wishful than real.
It is a popular notion of TV, FB, and media.
Doing the letting go, has nothing to do with what is actually possible to do.
Problems are not "let go", they are resolved somehow.
Living one day at a time isn't possible for anyone who has consciousness.
No one can really disconnect from reality every day on which they wake up.
Instead of trying to do the impossible which is promoted online and in media, allow yourself time to recognize what went into creating a problem in your life, in the first place.
Understanding problems leads to peacefulness and resolution.
Then you will have more freedom to make new relationships.
Also, be patient with this process and yourself.
If you have deep attachment to painful situations in your life, then possibly now is your time for understanding what went wrong.
This is a process which cannot be rushed if it is to be done well.
If it is done thoroughly, then you very naturally will bring new relationships into your life.
And life will no longer feel so painful that you can only manage "one day at a time" without hurting.
You won't need to forget what happened yesterday.
Research is telling us more and more that one of the most important keys to happiness is having healthy relationships.
If we feel successful in that area, it can give us the confidence and hope to tackle anything life throws at us.
There are personal barriers we all have to having healthy relationships; it's our "stuff", our "baggage".
You hint that people may have hurt you in the past.
Maybe fear says "stay away, hold onto resentment or you will be hurt again!
Resentment, or simply focusing on the past is certainly a barrier to improving any relationship.
Learning to forgive ourselves and others is so important.
And remember, forgiveness isn't about saying something was okay; it only means "It happened, I can't change that, and I don't want to carry it (anger, hurt, resentment) around anymore, so I let it go.
Or, sometimes fear tells us that people won't accept us; this keeps us isolated for sure!
But really, all fear wants is power over us.
Fear is a trickster!
It tells us that if we let go of the past, we will be rejected or hurt.
It says "I'm trying to protect you, but what it REALLY wants is to paralyze and isolate us all so it can feel powerful.
Once you pull the sheeps clothing off of fear, you can see that it doesn't help you at all!
Once you see where your personal barriers are, and you start to refute those thoughts in your mind, you can begin to build new ideas about yourself and other people that are based on compassion instead of fear,Everyone deserves forgiveness and compassion.
No one deserves to be judged by their worst moments.
If I look in the rearview mirror, I can't move forward.
We are all beautifully imperfect.
I can't change the past, but I have the power to make the future good.
I wish you the best on your journey!
Take one day at a time!
Each day do things that make you happy, moves to a positive place, focusing on the future, give you a sense of fulfillment and accomplishment.
Journal at the end of the day of how well you did that day in focusing on these things.
Each day should be a step better than the previous day.
You will have days that you didn't do as well,.
that is human and OK.
Just get back on track the next day,.
At the end of the week, review how well you did and give your self a grade.
If did well, you deserve ice cream If not so good, OK, tell yourself next week "got to focus one day at a time".
You can do it.
It takes practice but will get better each day, I wish you happy days and happy future.
Remember, the past no longer exists and the future is just an illusion as we don't know what will happen tomorrow, so take the present as your guide.
That is all we can do, so keep saying this to yourself and try to help someone each day.
The happiness is helping others to feel a bit better.
Conflict is a tricky beast and shows up in everyone of our relationships.
What I'm reading is that you find yourself in a loop of seeking validation of your thoughts and feelings from your friends rather than validating yourself.
Am I right?
If you aren't validating yourself, no one else will be able to either.
Try finding a small nugget of truth in the feedback your friends give you, this will help to lower your defenses and help your friends hear what you are really sharing.
And then if you are still feeling vulnerable, share that too.
It sounds like your confused as to why your friends would be calling you a hypocrite when they act in the same manner, correct?
Communication is key to any relationship.
I would recommend speaking with your friends face-to-face to address why they feel your behavior is concerning.
In-person contact is the best method of sorting out differences considering texts, emails or any written response can be misconstrued.
Be upfront with them and let them know that being accused of hypocrisy is hurtful and you feel it is unfounded.
If after speaking with them you feel that they have valid reasons for the way they are feeling, maybe you can consider modifying your behavior accordingly.
Especially if this friendship is valuable to you.
However, make sure they are aware that there is a respectful way to address these issues and name calling is not one of them.
On the other hand, if you feel that their reasons are indeed unfounded, it may be best to distance yourself from the relationship.
Not all friendships are healthy ones.
And it is important that you surround yourself with people who are an asset to your self esteem as opposed to those that hinder it.
I hope you are able to get this matter sorted.
Best of luck!
That's a very difficult situation that you are in.
But you are not alone.
I have several school-aged clients who find little to no assistance from their teachers at their schools regarding bullying.
There are a few options that are available to you to help deal with being bullied at school.
One option that I would suggest is for you to talk to your support network.
Friends and family can sometimes be good sources of support.
Another option would be to speak with us about your counselor, if you have one.
And third, there are some excellent online sources of support regarding the bullying at school.
Teachers don't do anything about it due to liability of the school (school and faculty would get sued and have claims made against them); wouldn't expect much out of them; Couple things:1) Realize that bullies accuse others of the very crimes they are doing themselves;2) Bullies aren't actually all that weak as others have said, but do not stand up against constant pressure of truth-telling;3) Research yourself, or pay someone, to locate the bully's mother and father, and let them know what you have experienced (by way of text, phone, letter);4) Access your own mother and father and tell them what you have experienced, and see if they will help;Long term, society must return to a more masculine way of being such that these sorts of troubles are dealt with at the home.
Learn to be man/woman, and watch the magic happen.
To be bullied is very painful.
I'm glad you know the bullies are doing the wrong thing and whatever they are telling you is pure meanness.
Depending on how independent you feel, why not tell either your classroom teacher or schedule an appointment with the vice principal?
Bullying other students is taken very seriously in some states and schools are expected to address the bullying until the victimized student feels safe.
If you hesitate to do this on your own, then would you ask either of your parents or even a friend of yours who is also in the school, to report the problem?
In case you are afraid the bullies will retaliate for reporting them, then tell this to whatever school authority you decide to ask for help.
You're entitled to be protected by your school.
It doesn't sound like he hates you, just misses mom and dad in the mornings.
You could validate his feelings by saying something like "I know you want to see mom and dad right now, but they are working" and then give him a couple options of things that may take his mind off of it.
This could be choosing what he has for breakfast or playing a game of his choice.
If possible, it may also be helpful if you could create a routine in which he stops by mom and dad to say good morning.
If this is routine, he will come to understand that he will be able to see mom and dad for a minute and not become anxious about seeing them.
Be lighthearted, this toddler may not be a morning person!
He is most likely wanting to connect with either parent when he arises in the morning.
It could be helpful to talk with his parents and establish a routine that he would be comfortable with.
It is very likely the child is upset by the fact that the parents have left, more than that he hates you in particular.
The fact that by afternoon he is happy with you shows more likelihood that he reacts to the parents departure more than who you are.
You should be able to get a replacement ID card either from the Personnel Office on your local base (the actual name of this office will vary depending on which branch of the military it is).
You may also be required to go to the Military Police or Security office on base to report the loss of your old ID card.
Do you have any other form of identification?
The first place to stop would be the Visitor's Center or whichever department issues passes.
They are located outside of the gate so you do not need a military ID to enter.
If you have another form of identification it's possible that they can give you a pass in order to go and obtain a new military ID.
If you do not, you could always ask someone else to sponsor you on (a friend, coworker) that have military access.
Depending on the threat level, they may not need your ID as long as you are with someone that has access.
Keep in mind that currently (6/11/15) all military bases are on Bravo which unfortunately means you will need your own ID.
Finally, if all else fails, call your doctor and explain your situation.
I'm sure they would be more than willing to discuss your options.
Also, it's important to make sure that you report your wallet being stolen if you haven't already.
Security Forces on base can help you with this and to ensure your ID doesn't get into the wrong hands.
Good luck!
As a prior military spouse myself I can happily report that you have several options in this case.
First, you can go to the visitors center and let them know what has happened to get a temporary pass for a new id.
Also, you can call the squadron commander or other official from your husband's unit to get them to tell you how to proceed.
You can also contact the military personnel flight for more information The best thing is to get a new id as soon as you can.
There should be no problems because it was stolen and you might need to report it to the military police or security forces on base.
In a way, self-harm can present somewhat like an addiction.
According to new research within the field of neuroscience there is a valid explanation for this.
When a person cuts or uses other forms of self harm, the body produces endorphins to help make a person feel better.
If a person was dealing with depression or high anxiety, that might be misinterpreted by the brain as a way to help oneself feel better and a new neural network or map might form (addiction) that would utilize this new behavior.
Another way to look at it would be thru a behavioral lens, a positive reward for a behavior, even though the behavior has other long term negative consequences.
Consider working with someone who can both have you work on and address those items that trigger your behavior and the root causes, in this case sadness or depression, and second find someone who can help give you alternatives that take into account the neurological requirement by replacing the behavior with another behavior (such as snapping a rubber band on the wrist) and working to extinguish the unwanted behavior.
Someone who is trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy and/or Interpersonal Neurobiology would most likely have the skills and means available to address this with you.
Self-harm has a way of becoming a go-to method of coping.
When we get stuck using self-harm as a way to deal and manage emotions, when something serious happens it totally makes sense that that will be one the first things to go through the mind.
It is its own kind of addiction.
There is a therapy, DBT or, Dialectical Behavior Therapy, which focusing on giving you new tools to get through hard times, understand and manage your emotions, to stay present and to deal with relationships.
This one of the most effective interventions there is for self-harm.
If you are interested in DBT, reach a local therapist in your area and ask if they do DBT or can recommend you to a DBT program.
This can help immensely.
Self-harm recovery is totally possible, but it is definitely hard work!
Hello, and thank you for your question.
This is a very serious time.
I don't mean to frighten you, but you are right to be concerned.
The time right after people leave the hospital after receiving psychiatric services is a time of high risk for suicide.
It is very important, after hospitalization,to getfollow-up care with a professional as soon as possible.
If your husband has an established therapist, this is the time to call.
It is also a good time to alert your support system of friends, family, clergy or others to let them know he is still struggling.
This is good support for him AND you.
It is important to think about means and opportunity to make another attempt.
Means really do matter.
So, if you have a firearm in the home, it is really important to remove it.
You can't remove all things that a person may hurt themselves with, but some things are more lethal than others.
Firearms are very lethal.
I am not sure what means he used last time, but try to reduce the opportunity for him to access it again.
This is where your support system can help out.
People can take turns hanging out with him until you are sure the crisis is over.
If you believe that an attempt is going to occur, talk to your husband about going back to the hospital.
If he refuses, you will want to find out what your options are to have him go even if he doesn't want to.
I know the thought of that really hurts, but it can save his life.
Calling 9-1-1 is always a good option if you are not sure.
Usually a suicide crisis, meaning they want to harm themselves right now, lasts a few minutes, hours or days.
Sometimes when you get them through the crisis stage, they no longer want to commit suicide.
But, as you are indicating, that feeling of wanting to commit suicide can come back again.
So, it is always good to have a plan.
They can help you create a specific safety plan.
I do hope things work out alright.
This is actually more common then we often realize, and actually understandable, as he has gone through a trauma, an unresolved existential crisis.
He was taken care of by others and now is again left alone with his own internal, and rather horrific inner struggle.
I have learned how trapped suicidal people are in their own isolation, also called a "mysterious isolation," a form of self protection which cuts the off from their Self, or spirit.
And unless they address this message from their soul, accompany a guide on a journey to discover their own missing information, that is to recognize how their own uncomforted emotionalpain has resulted in a coping stategy which has effectively cut themselves off from their own beauty, their Self, and their ability to receive love from themselves and others.
Their attempt to kill themselves is a cry from their soul or spirit that they cannot live the life they are living any longer.
They take this literally and try to end their life, when in fact what their soul or spirit is saying is they need to begin to live the life they came here to live.
I'm thankful to read your husband found care and that his suicide attempt wasn't successful.
While he was hospitalized, and prior to his release, your husband would've been provided in writing a self-care action plan.
This typically includes things like committing to a contract 'not to harm' and what to do if he felt overwhelmed by his anger, depression, and hopelessness ( call 911, call therapist, go to nearest hospital emergency department).
Additionally, his protocol would've provided instructions for his taking medication(s) as directed, having a follow-up appointment(s) with his psychiatrist/psychologist/clinical social worker, and participating in some form of small group support.
If your husband's struggling as you describe, and you are feeling overwhelmed or frightened for his (your) safety, I'd encourage you to seek immediate assistance.
This must be so difficult for both of you.
Watching someone you love suffer so profoundly can bring up lots of difficult feelings.
Without knowing what you are already doing, I have a few thoughts to share with you.
First and foremost, know that you cannot fix this for him, and get support for yourself.
As much as you are able, make space in your relationship for him to talk about what he is experiencing.
He might not want to talk, and that is ok.
If he wants to talk, try to listen without judgement and without trying to talk him out of his feelings.
Focus on validating his feelings and just sitting with him in his pain.
Let him know how you feel,that you love him, that you care, that you are concerned, that this is scary for you too, that you are here.
I hope that this is helpful.
I've written a series of blog posts about coping with distress.
The techniques I've written about there may be supportive for you and your husband.
Sending warm wishes your way.
I appreciate that you are concerned about your husband's emotions and want to support him as best you can right now.
I imagine that you must be going through your own difficult time too.
You've had a complicated shock and trauma in your life and in your marriage; it's normal for both of your emotions to move from hope to despair to fear, anger, gratitude, there is no wrong way to feel and there is no particular pattern your emotions or his will follow.
Try not to assume what he is feeling but ask him instead.
How are you doing today?
is something that can be asked over and over again and your love and compassion for him will come through.
If he has a hard time talking, you can share your observations.
I notice you're more withdrawn.
This worries me.
Certainly it will help you if you know what he's thinking and feeling because he hid his intentions to hurt himself.
It's normal that you want to know.
If there is depression and hopelessness, this likely was part of what led to his initial despair.
There is help out there.
Depression is treatable, and seeking that treatment is important right now at this vulnerable time.
This is the kind of complex situation that can be assisted by a therapist who is qualified to help you both understand and manage your emotions.
Whether your husband seeks help or not, I hope that you do.
A failed suicide attempt is commonly thought of as a cry for help, however it can also be a serious attempt to find a permanent solution to depression, hopelessness or other feelings a person feels are unbearable.
It's wonderful that you want to support your husband, but If your husband is feeling depressed and hopeless, you can best help him by getting him to a mental health professional.
Feelings of hopelessness and depression, and previous attempts at suicide are all risk factors for future suicide attempts.
With a mental health professional, or in the emergency room of a hospital, your husband should be evaluated for suicidal thoughts, intent and plan, and if he is a danger to himself he should probably be hospitalized again until he is stable.
Without knowing the particulars, your husband may suffer from Major Depressive Disorder or some other illness on the depressive spectrum.
In that case medication could help him immensely, at which point you can offer your support and encouragement him to practice gentle self-care.
And do not forget to practice it for yourself.
Remember: a suicide attempt not only affects the person, but it is an immense stressor for his or her loved ones as well.
As they say, put your oxygen mask on first.
Then you will be better able to provide your husband with calm and loving care and attention.
Kayla Schwartz, LMSW[emailprotected].
The fact that you're reaching out for help here is really helpful.
The first thing I would suggest is that you consider seeing a local mental health professional yourself to be able to talk about the details, how this is affecting you, and how you can hold onto you are while also being supportive to you husband.
From the way that you describe this, I wonder what has changed since coming home from the hospital.
Perhaps you can have a conversation with your husband this and mention that you are asking him questions to learn more about his experience and you can discuss how you notice that things were going much better when he came home from the hospital, and now things are not as good.
Perhaps he can tell you about what is different so that you may know him would be most helpful to him.
I also hope that you husband is still continuing with his own treatment.
There may also be a local peer support telephone number for the county that you live in that they be able to help you determine whether your husband needs more immediate treatment if he is feeling hopeless again.
There are national crisis telephone numbers listed below as well.
Since as husband and wife your lives are closely joined, how your husband feels greatly influences the way you feel.
Give yourself some time to concentrate on how you've been affected by your husband's suicide attempt.
Even if you decide against immediately telling him how you're feeling, knowing this about yourself will guide how and the topics you bring up with him.
Is your husband talking easily with you?
Do you have some ideas as to what is creating his feeling of hopelessness?
The ideal approach would be if the two of you are able to discuss what bothers him and what bothers you.
Depending on how far away you each are from such a position, you may benefit from speaking with a licensed professional therapist who can guide you and or you and your husband on opening up for discussion what feels stressful enough to merit taking one's own life.
It seems like you are very receptive of your husband's emotions and want to support him trough this time.
But it is also important of being aware of your emotions.
How are you feeling after the suicide attempt?
It is common to experience negative feelings while you try to make sense of the incident.
Feelings like anger, shame, guilt and fear are frequent; while, wanting to avoid, minimize and become distant from the person are parts of the defense mechanism to attempt a quick resolution.
Once you understand and overcome those feelings you may be in a better position to help your husband; who may be experiencing some negative feelings as well.
First, it is important to have a safety plan in place, which includes removing harming objects from the home, knowing who to call if there's a new attempt (either 9-1-1, or nearby treatment center), have a professional expert who monitors you and your husband's progress, either a Counselor or mental health provider could help you manage negative feelings and identify ways to handle triggering situations.
Once the safety plan is in place, make him feel supported and not judged, saying open ended statements, like: I am glad that you are here, please let me know what I can do to help you through this process.
Making small changes toward a healthier living may help as well.
Exercising, eating healthier and practicing new leisure activities may be good ways to start.
Also, explore your spirituality and your husbands, looking for ways to encourage each other by joining a support group or finding people who share your spiritual beliefs.
Any diagnosis is limited in its usefulness.
Knowing the name of some typical ways you may feel, think and behave, doesn't help you or anyone to understand why the person is the way they are and how to change any of these characteristics.
Both self-diagnosing and being diagnosed are equally unhelpful to know why you are the way you are and what to do about it.
Consider yourself a person who wants to find a better way to be who you are, and this will get you further with better results than to read a list of descriptions which all are very indicting and negative sounding.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
Self-diagnosing is something that we all do about one health issue or another.
Taking a guess about what may or may not be happening to us is completely normal, however the actual clinical diagnoses of a mental health disorder requires a licensed mental health professional.
Here are a few reasons for this:
1. Making a clinical diagnosis often requires other things besides matching up the symptoms of a disorder.
To come to a diagnoses for any of the things you mentioned, a counselor would consult theDSM, but they may also use some type of screening tool, assessment or scale.
Many disorders have similarities and it requires someone with training to tease out the differences in the symptoms.
2. Our judgement is sometimes off when it comes to assessing ourselves.
We really can't be objective.
Something as serious as determining a diagnosis really needs to be done by someone who has that objectivity.
In addition, once you know your diagnosis, treating it usually requires help from a professional.
3. Sometimes the symptoms of a mental health disorder makes self-diagnoses impossible, in and of itself.
For example, someone could be having hallucinations or delusions and not realize it.
That would clearly make it impossible for them to diagnose themselves.
There are many examples where something like this could happen with different mental health disorders.
There are other reasons, but these are three important ones.
Now, does this mean that you are wrong about your diagnosis?
Maybe not.
You may be correct.
But it is important to get this confirmed by a professional mental health clinician.
If a disorder is then found, you can begin to talk about treatment.
Hope this was helpful.
Sounds like signs of someone who is depressed.
Since the person in question is your friend, offer your friendship to listen to any situations or feelings she has about herself and the way her life is going.
Depressed people are often lonely people and feel as though no one around them cares or notices them.
Your willingness to be available to her may lift her spirits.
Feeling loved goes a long way to dissolving depressed feelings.
Also, if in the beginning when you offer to talk, there is a high chance she'll be defensive and turn down your offer.
Try again on another day and then another day.
When people feel depressed they usually shut down.
So you may need a few or several tries before your friend accepts your offer to show her you care about how she is doing.
Also, watch for signs within yourself that your friends' depression is not sinking your emotions.
Depressed people are draining to be around because they often see and talk about only the negatives and drawbacks of situations.
What matters most is how you feel and what you're doing, with whom you're interacting, whether you feel you've got enough interaction to be happy.
Whether or not a clinician would decide to identify you as "depressed" matters much less than how you actually are feeling, if you have some ideas as to what might improve your sense of being, and how to go about reaching your goals.
If therapy during your childhood made you feel better and you feel you may be depressed, then trying therapy at this point in your life, makes sense.
The worst that can happen is you find you feel better than you first understood.
The best that can happen is you find a caring therapist who helps you find faith in yourself again.
Sometimes it's helps to have a name for a problem - it can make you feel less alone as in, "oh there's a name for this and other people have this experience too.
On the other hand naming the problem can also make it stick around longer as in "now I have a special problem that has a special name, and that's an important part of who I am.
Bottom line, whether it's a disorder or not, you would like life to be easier and not have to be pulled so much by other people's energy and feelings.
You might want to try imagining that you have a volume dial on your empathy (just like the volume dial or button on the tv) that you can gently turn down to the point where you still feel what's going on but it's not so "loud".
You can also try imagining pulling your own energy back as if you were drawing your energy back home to the center of your own body and being, letting go of the other people or characters that pulled your energy out so far.
This is a way create better boundaries and protect your own vulnerability.
Just like on an airplane where they tell you to put on your own oxygen mask first before helping anyone else, your empathy will most likely not really help others if you allow yourself to be depleted.
It sounds like this would be difficult at times, particularly if you feel misunderstood.
You may or may not know that we all have chemicals in our brain.
We also have different sections of our brain that become active when different things happen.
There is a part of our brain where a lot of our emotions originate that is also designed to protect us when we are going through things that have been physically or emotionally painful in the past, and when that part of the brain is sometimes overactive (perceiving threat when there is no actual threat at the time), sometimes anxiety can develop.
This doesn't necessarily mean that everyone has an anxiety disorder, but often if we are afraid of something that is not actually a legitimate concern (for example, most insects are not going to hurt me, but I still do not like them very much), we have anxiety about it.
The first thing I thought of when I read your question is that perhaps some part of your brain are overactive.
I did find an article that may be helpful to you, but I just want to caution you.
Not everything listed here applies to you.
Also, the article uses the term "brain anomalies".
This does not mean that there is something majorly wrong with your brain.
While I cannot tell you exactly what is happening, I'm asking you not to panic over the term and to just consider that perhaps some of the chemical reactions in your brain may be a little overactive, which may be able to be corrected with medication or something similar.
I can't tell for certain from what you posted whether or not this is what is happening, but I would recommend that you either talk to your primary care physician or a therapist or psychiatrist.
The world needs more people lately who have such a high degree of empathy which you describe in yourself!
If it feels a little burdensome, then look to balance what is too much with its opposite.
Since you're giving a lot of empathy, maybe you'd like receiving a lot of empathy.
In the situation you describe, when you start empathizing with others, real or cartoon, ask yourself whether you've felt empathy coming in your direction lately.
Often people give to others what they feel within themselves is missing.
The emotional brain reasons that if I give you my support, say, then at least I will feel half of what being supported is like.
Obviously the wish to receive more empathy cannot be fulfilled by you directly.
Empathy is delivered by someone who is willing to offer it.
Reflect on whether you are allowing those who are in your world, to know when you would like to receive their empathy.
Is it possible you keep your feelings to yourself and present as though you are able to handle a great deal more than you'd like to handle without anyone's kindness to support you?
Being open to others about your own inner thoughts and feelings is much more difficult than it sounds.
It sounds easy to just tell someone how you feel.
Sometimes the first step is the most difficult, of accessing how you feel.
Start with knowing the amount of empathy you'd like from others and what stops you from asking.
Also, about your diagnosis and the lack of studies and lists and formulas.
Each person is unique, the instructions and guidelines don't necessarily mean very much.
Often having a diagnosis makes a person feel weak, stigmatized, incompetent.
Forget the diagnosis and concentrate on what you need to do differently in order to feel better.
The answers are inside you, not inside a book or website.
This is a great question, and I am happy to have the opportunity to explain my approach.
When I am determining what type of personality a client has, I take my time and really absorb their lens/ point of view to themselves and others.
Determining a personality type takes some time getting to know the person, and building rapport.
After taking time to get to know them, and learning about their view they have of themselves and others, it is important to pick-up on more specific personality traits, which comprehensively contribute to a personality type.
Clinicians, including myself, often witness certain traits that are enduring and consistent, which indicate a type of personality.
For example, if a therapist is noticing that a client is exhibiting traits of organization, needing to be on time, planning, and perfectionism, these traits contribute to the "type A personality".
In addition to utilizing clinical judgment, clinicians often use personality assessments and follow the guidelines of the DSM-5/ ICD-10.
That's a great question.
There is such a wide range of ways to define "personality" that it is difficult to identify specific characteristics that are used to identify personality types.
That being said, some clinicians will use standardized tests (or assessments) to assess a client's type of personality.
While these tests can't tell us everything about a person, they can help us understand where we are within larger groups of different personality styles.
Some counselors will also use a diagnostic tool (like the DSM or ICD) to help a client understand a diagnosis that is related to a personality disorder.
Not very well.
So, you got the Jungians, and you got the Big Fiver's, and you got every manner of Ivory-Tower Orc in between, loosening the chains on their drooling, snarling Pet Theories,The real truth is, does it matter?
If it does, what does it matter?
If it's still of keen interest to you, I would presume that God designed most of his creatures with a "simpler set" of personality blueprints; not a complex set as theorized by man;Also realize that this level of reality is dualistic in nature; that means there is two of everything;So, imagine that whatever personalities you observe, and whatever words come to mind, also think of the opposite word, and you'll have a good sense of what actual personalities look like.
Then, share your findings; it'll be pretty neat to see what you come up with.
In my therapy practice I avoid characterizing people except for whether or not they are self-harming or a risk to harm other people.
As long as someone is sincerely trying to know more about themselves my work is help the person clarify who they really are and how their true self may be quite different than the life the person created for themselves, based on satisfying other people's standards.
In broad terms, personality disorders have stock characteristics which change very minimally over time instead of uniqueness which constantly flows and changes with circumstances over time.
I think we all go through a period of time where we think we aren't worth anything.
Sometimes these feelings are a result of low self esteem or because of shame.
The most important part of dealing with this thought is to separate feelings from reality.
"I don't feel worth anything, but I know what I do is important, I know who I am matters to others.
I know I am loved and cared about.
When you find yourself having these thoughts, stop, take a few deep breaths and try to reframe what you're thinking.
There is nothing wrong with you!
Sometimes we get intrusive thoughts that can be worrisome.
One things that can be helpful is to identify if there is a trigger to these thoughts - something in your life that makes these thoughts more common (an experience, a person, a place, a situation).
It will also be helpful to try and challenge this type of thinking by focusing on ways in which you are worthwhile as a person and have worth in your life.
CBT (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy) may be particularly helpful with this, also.
If you are open to seeing a therapist, find one that does CBT.
You can also find resources on CBT online.
It focuses on stopping and challenging unhelpful and harmful thinking patterns and replacing it with more helpful and healthy thinking patterns.
We all suffer from random thoughts from time to time.
Being able to manage your thoughts and choose what to think about yourself is something you would learn in counseling.
An effective treatment modality for this situation is cognitive behavioral therapy.
A lot of times the thoughts we have about ourselves are messages we have received from other people and later internalized them.
So in that sense, these thoughts are yours and belong to you, but you have received these messages from somebody else.
Even though we all receive messages like this at times, it pays to be careful not to ignore other messages we are receiving, such as a loved one appreciating your help or attention, a friend responding to encouragement, or a colleague showing interest in you.
I hope this helps.
Those kinds of thoughts can be quite difficult to handle, but if they are your own thoughts (and not voices you are hearing, which can be very different), they likely are not new to you.
From what I've learned from clients I work with, often these thoughts have been quite useful for them over the course of their lives, that through criticizing oneself, it is a way of motivating oneself.
However, in your case and in most of those clients, it has caught up to them and it's almost like they no longer need the motivation (that they can do just fine motivating themselves by themselves)I think it's important to see these thoughts as the voice of the "inner critic.
That inner critic was there for a long time, again, because "it" (I like to identify it as a thing inside of you) thought that you needed motivation in the form of criticism to stay on task with your life.
But now that that kind of sentiment is no longer needed by you, it might be time to have a different kind of relationship with it.
But it wants to be heard.
It doesn't want to silenced (Or "stopped" in your words) So instead of trying to ignore it, perhaps we can see all the ways you are worth something and internalize (take in, let those ways resonate with you, sit with them, think about them) so that the inner critic can see that it isn't quite correct in what it is saying.
In essence, you are instead sitting with the thoughts or worthiness instead of worthlessness.
If that is challenging, sometimes seeing someone who is objective, such as a therapist, can be helpful.
They can help you see the ways in which you are strong, have resilience, as well as any positive attributes that might be hard to see in the face of this loud inner critic.
And, above all, if you feel like this doesn't resonate for you, and that the voices might actually be voices, an evaluation should be sought to further tease out what sorts of symptoms you are experiencing.
We have thousands of thoughts a day.
Some thoughts we choose to think, and some thoughts are random as you describe.
We can't control the first random thought but as soon as we become aware of it we can make a conscious choice to change the thought.
Positive affirmations are messages we intentionally read to or tell ourselves to help us counteract negative thoughts.
If you find yourself under stress on some days more than others you may notice an increase of these negative thoughts about yourself.
To help you neutralize your negative thoughts and make it more natural to randomly think positive thoughts about yourself you might find it helpful to work with a therapist who specializes in cognitive behavioral therapy.
This professional can help you build insight into your errors in thinking, help you develop a stress management plan, and provide you with additional tools to boost your self-esteem.
Many people have thoughts like those you describe, and often it feels like someone else is saying it because they are things that may have been said to you when you were very young.
When young children hear negative things about themselves they tend to internalize these negative ideas and to form negative core beliefs.
The good news is we can learn to stop these thoughts and to replace them with healthier thoughts.
The first step is to catch yourself when you are thinking these thoughts, and to stay "stop!
; then replace it with another thought.
So for instance, maybe you fail a test or get rejected by a romantic interest.
You catch yourself saying "you aren't worth anything".
Stop this thought, and replace it with "You didn't do as well on that test as you would have liked.
Let's figure out how you can do better next time.
Or "she may not want to go out with you, but someone else will".
So the idea is to develop a voice of a "friend", who can tell you the kind of things you would say to your own best friend.
You might also pick up the book, Feeling Good, by David Burns.
He gives many tips for how to change Negative Self Talk.
Talking to a licensed profession who can discuss this in greater depth can be best.
As a general information, in short, I can say that our thoughts are greatly influenced by our early life experiences.
Our thoughts are processed through schemes, these are mental images or templates by which we make meaning of the world around us.
While our upbringing has a great influence on the way we see and interact with the world around us as adults, However, we are not condemned to abide by them for life, in psychotherapy, you learn to change negative schemas with positive ones.
Yeah, if you had less than optimal childhood you would have some sort of negative schemas that unconsciously lead to self-sabotage your efforts for success and happiness.
The research in the field of interpersonal neurobiology suggests that without conscious awareness and reflective practices we tend to interact with the world by repeating old habits of mind.
On the other hand, in psychotherapy you can learn helpful strategies to increase your conscious abilities to stay in control of your mind in the present moment and reduce intrusions of negative mind habits.
Yoga, meditation, and taichi are also found to increase self-awareness and lessen the intrusions of negative self-judgment on one's psyche.
Life is beautiful without unwanted thoughts and stress.
With proper strategies and tools it is possible to regain control over your thoughts.
I guess you are just having "thoughts" and not actually "hearing voices"?
My suggestion is to see a therapist and go from there.
You know have the right therapist if:Your counselor specializes in what you are seeking help for or they have experience with treating people with similar issues.
They are ethical and are able to understand your culture or religious norms.
They are licensed in your state.
They are able to provide you treatment that is tailored to your needs so that you can meet your goals for therapy.
They are non-judgmental and can show empathy to you.
They can meet you were you are in your journey of healing and understand you.
The location of the office or use of technology to hold sessions is something that you are comfortable with.
Recognize that a relationship with a counselor is like a relationship with any other person, sometimes you mesh well and sometimes you do not mesh well.
A counselor should never take any offense if you do not feel like a good fit with the counselor, just be honest with your counselor about how you are feeling about the relationship.
If you feel the need to change counselors, feel the freedom to change counselors as you will get more from therapy if you feel like you make a good team.
To "train" your therapist:Be honest about your needs, expectations, barriers and about your situation.
Know thyself and share that with your counselor.
Create attainable goals for yourself with the help of the counselor.
Set the pace that you are comfortable with.
Feel comfortable to share an agenda for each session.
When you have the right therapist you just know, as evidence of the help that you have received, the progress that you have made, from the rapport and partnership that you have gained with your therapist, and from if you feel supported in a way that is helpful to you, as well as if your therapist has a good understanding of what your needs are and what you desire to gain from your therapy experience.
This is a great question.
A good therapist should first be someone you can trust and second, someone who encourages you to be honest with yourself.
Therapy is a time to learn new coping skills and learn more about yourself.
You have the answers you need within yourself, but it sometimes takes a keen ear to lead you to those answers.
This can't happen without trust and honesty.
You may not always leave therapy feeling energized.
Therapy can be hard work.
But, you should always feel you have gained something to ponder that will help you better understand yourself.
If you connect with your therapist and can say whatever you want to say and not be judged.
Having the perfect therapist can be the key to any fruitful relationship.
My private practice uses Life Coaching, though I am professionally qualified in many therapeutic modalities.
The therapeutic relationship is the initial step of any treatment program or goal attainment process.
We can discover an appreciation of having discovered the best character to show you on this journey in excellent communication.
person get you and are you on the same page in the therapeutic process?
The therapist should have considerable experience that combines professional instruction on the matters that you need guidance to overpower.
If the therapist doesn't have all the fundamental experiences, is he/she prepared to locate the suitable means that you require or have the capabilities to recommend you to someone while following up and continuing a prosperous and beneficial relationship with you.
If for some reason you are required to continue with a therapist and advance on this relationship, make certain that the communication areas are consistently transparent.
Express yourself openly in disclosing your objectives and purpose.
Try to find a commonality with the therapist that encompasses various pathways of motivation for them to learn and grow while maintaining a focus on your present accomplishments.
Optimal Communication is consistently the key to a healthy relationship.
The right therapist is [a] man or woman with whom you see an immediate and continual improvement in your issue, up until the point when you no longer need them anymore.
Think of them as a mechanic who should be able to fix your car relatively quickly; and, if he doesn't fix it, you fire him.
One way is to bring one's concerns or desires to the therapist directly, rather than trying to subtly 'train' them.
Here's why I say that:One quite important healing factor in a psychotherapy is discovering that problems in the therapy and the therapeutic relationship can be solved together.
It is a safety zone or bridge for practicing that.
If it can be done with a trained, usually safe person (the therapist), the client might think, wow--what are the implications for my outside life and relations?
Could I get what I want outside of therapy, too, even if it feels not as safe?
If the therapist can deal with feedback (and any good therapist should be able to), this can be very productive.
Cooperation in this way, in the moment, with a live person who is supposed to have authority and knowledge in these matters, can be profoundly healing.
If the therapist can't take feedback or doesn't want to--or does nothing to act on it--maybe we could say the client has the wrong therapist.
If you are seeking personal development and challenge resolution in a Christian context, I am the right counselor for you.
I will balance the needs of your temperament with scripture, prayer, and cognitive therapy techniques.
You should feel generally comfortable with your therapist.
Your therapist should be able to challenge you when necessary, and be able to provide support at other times.
I don't know if you can really "train" your therapist to give you what you need from treatment.
Definitely let your therapist know what you need or want from treatment and see what they have to say about your ideas.
Do you think you are or at least will be able to make the progress you want to make with your current therapist?
There isn't one "right" therapist for you.
There should be a few therapists in your area you will work with well enough.
If you can have a productive, open dialogue with your therapist and you feel comfortable enough then you may already be in the right place.
If you are having lots of doubt about your therapist being the "right" one interview other therapists.
Your comfort with a therapist is one of the most essential aspects of a quality therapeutic relationship.
Don't be afraid to ask questions about the therapist's approach and background.
Do you feel heard and understood?
Do you find the feedback helpful and directed toward achieving your goals.
Ensuring open communication with your therapist is primary to making sure you have the right therapist.
You should like and trust your counselor.
But you will not believe the number of people I have met with that have described their past counselor as totally opposite than me or someone who didn't get me or had totally opposing beliefs as me.
Suggestion to the masses, do your research prior to entering counseling!
If you are someone who often cusses and is abrasive, you might not want to pick the counselor who is highly professional and uses sophisticated language throughout their site.
Pick someone who is more in line with your personality and wants for your future.
And even if you do your research beforehand and figure out you aren't vibing after a few sessions, that's okay!
Let your counselor know this, and who knows there might be something that can be done to make you feel more comfortable or maybe there isn't.
But the good thing to note is that there are thousands of human helpers in your city and your counselor would be happy to provide you with a referral to a better fitting therapist.
I think it's crucial that a person finds the "right" therapist.
Questions, questions, questions!
First I would ask them if they have experience and training in whatever the primary issues are that you are wanting to work on.
You want to make sure the therapist has the skills and experience to help you.
It's okay to ask "have you worked with these issues before?
and "Can you tell me what methods you use to treat these issues?
and "Are the methods you use evidenced-based?
Then I would ask what expectations the therapist is going to have of you the client.
Do they expect you to do homework, come with something to talk about each session, or keep a journal?
See if their expectations align with what you are looking for.
And lastly, I would schedule a session and "try out" the therapist.
See if you feel comfortable and safe.
As for "training" your therapist, I would suggest you be the leader of your therapy, ask for what you want, be direct and do hesitate to tell your therapist if you feel you are not getting what you need.
They can't read your mind and would likely find that information very valuable.
They want you to feel better and to make progress, and if they are going down the wrong path you should let them know.
The first thing I would ask yourself is how do you feel when it is time to go to therapy?
What do you notice inside your body?
Are you sick to your stomach?
Neutral?
Dreading it?
Your body will give you indications as to how safe you feel.
Your relationship with your therapist is like any other relationship, you need to feel safe, accepted and understood.
You want to see someone who you look forward to sitting across from and feel comfortable talking about whatever is on your heart and mind.
What are you preferences?
Do you feel more comfortable with a male or female therapist?
Does their age matter?
What kind of therapy do you want to do?
Do you know?
If not, you might want to talk to friends or family who have done therapy and ask them what they liked or didn't like, what worked for them and what the process was like.
You can always talk to a prospective therapist about all the questions you have (Have they worked with others with your issues?
Have they ever been in therapy?
Where did they go to school?
What kind of training do they have?
You may not know in the first session or two if you have the right therapist but pay attention to how you feel while you are there.
Your therapist should check in with you and ask how you are feeling.
If it's not a good match for you, your therapist should try and help you find someone who will be a good match.
Your trust and connection with your therapist is the biggest indicator for success in therapy.
Both of you should be concerned about your alliance and any good therapist will want you to find the best therapist for you!
You can certainly ask the therapist questions such as their style or issues they have experience working with.
You can also determine whether a therapist is the right fit if you feel a connection or alliance and feel that you are working together toward your goals.
It is important to be open and honest with your therapist about what you are looking for in counseling.
Though this varies from person to person, I think finding the right therapist involves finding someone who you're comfortable opening up to and speaking your mind, including your preferred areas of focus for treatment.
It's important to be aligned with your therapist's general approach and, to find someone who you feel genuinely attuned to, both in practice and also, with who they are as a person.
Bringing up your needs for treatment is key and finding someone who validates your needs, listens and welcomes feedback are all important building blocks for creating space for a great working relationship that promotes personal growth, openness and invites adaptable approaches in session, based on your individual needs.
How do you know anything is "right" for you?
I think it's an intuitive process, and not always based on the objective expertise of the therapist, either (most psychotherapy research has concluded that the client-therapist relationship is the strongest factor in success in therapy) But, in my view what is important to check-in with yourself around whether or not the therapist can hold space for all that you come in with (for example, not expressing discomfort with things you might talk about is a big "run away"), challenge you enough where you feel like it is challenging you to grow, but also where there is some part of you that does look forward to the sessions.
How to "train" your therapist?
This could be a session in and of itself I must say.
The therapist-client relationship can resemble many of the relationships in your life, or those that you seek out.
A therapist, like anyone else in your life, won't be able to give you what you need 100% of the time and then expect that you will be able to function outside of the space.
That can turn into a highly enabling process that won't help your other relationships.
However, what the therapist can do, and help you deal with, is to tell you what they can and can't give you, and then process the disappointment that you feel when they can't be everything you might feel you need.
Hello and thanks for your question!
It's important to have the right therapist.
I encourage you to start by checking out the website of the therapist.
Their blog articles will reflect the kind of work they do and the approach they may take while working with you.
If there's an email listed, go ahead and reach out.
Ask the particular questions that are on your mind.
Share a little of what you are looking for in a therapist.
Are you a goal-direct, solution-focused individual who is looking for someone to listen and ask questions?
Are you less self-directive and desire a therapist who can give you the consistent push to move forward?
Are you interested in intertwining certain theory approaches?
Maybe a cognitive-base or experiential?
Art therapy or engaging in exercise while talking?
Your therapist is out there.
It's OK to try out a therapist for a session or two.
Interview them as they interview you.
It's also OK to change therapists; ask your present therapist for a referral.
He or she should be willing to provide you with names of other providers and there's no shame in asking for it.
You deserve to work with someone who fits your style!
I imagine there's already enough things happening in your life if you are searching for a therapist.
Do you really want to "train" your therapist?
After all, you are paying them for their knowledge and expertise.
It does take time to develop a relationship and developing one with your therapist is vital to your growth and satisfaction.
Participating in therapy, for the most part, should be a time you anticipate and not avoid.
Can you be honest with them?
Are you trusting of the confidentiality they provide?
Has this person clearly shared with you the limits of confidentiality if using insurance versus paying privately?
Is there any part of you that "just isn't sure"?
It's okay to assert yourself in therapy.
As a therapist, I invite you to assert yourself as it's a way to develop self-confidence and resiliency.
Not everyone thrives in therapy by sitting in an office or lounging on a couch.
Some folks benefit by challenging themselves in various environments, or are more comfortable in their homes, online, in the community, at a retreat Give yourself a gift of spending some time finding the person that can work with you towards what you are searching.
Although there's the convenience of the local non-profit agency in your area, it may not be what you need.
Also, limiting yourself to the names of providers listed on your insurance may not lead to the "right one".
There are many forms of therapy that insurances refuse to cover.
When this happens, many times you can be reimbursed for your expenses by your insurance or you can use a Health Savings Card or Flexible Spending Card, there are many, many options.
Therapy is about exploring yourself.
Go ahead and feel free!
If you feel as if you need to "train" your therapist, it seems that person is not the right fit for you.
Engaging in treatment should be quite comfortable from the outset of treatment.
Many independent practitioners or small group providers offer a free consultation to start the relationship.
Perhaps that's a place for you to begin?
Good luck and I wish you well!
The most important part of therapy is finding a therapist who is the right fit and you feel you can connect to.
Feeling comfortable with your therapist and feeling that you can be vulnerable is what will assist in helping you find what you want out of therapy.
It also sounds like discussing with a potential therapist your expectations for therapy.
Also, I would read up on what the therapy process is like so that you are aware of the role the therapist is supposed to play in your life.
As long as a therapist is ethical and not breaking any ethical practices, find someone you connect with and can share with.
Finding the right therapist for you may take time - or you may find one the first try.
Two important things to think about when first finding a therapist are do I feel safe?
The first time seeing a therapist can be anxiety provoking. It may be uncomfortable.
Unless there are giant red flags about a therapist (things beyond meeting someone for the first time and answering uncomfortable but important questions), I always suggest seeing a therapist 3-4 times before making a decision to try another.
It may end up that you feel like your therapist isn't the best fit for you, but again, I encourage you to give them a couple times before moving on.
When you get past the initial sessions of paperwork and gathering information, you can gauge the client - therapist relationship better, and when you find the right person to work with, you will know it.
You should talk with the therapist.
In addition to asking the therapist about his/her experiences and specialty in treating the issue you want to address; you will gain a sense of the therapist's ability to connect with you in your first phone call or meeting with him/her.
This is why I offer a free 15-minute phone consultation.
You can use the above criteria to gauge the therapist's ability to do the following: Hear you, join with you in understanding the issue, and indicate some ways in which the issue may be treated.
Regarding training a therapist, just ask the therapist if he or she can comply with what you are looking for, or what has worked with you before if you have had prior counseling.
If you just like a therapist to listen, you are looking for a non-directive therapist.
If you want one to be more active in guiding you, choose a directive therapist.
You can also ask them with which type of client/issue they work best.
I specialize treating anxiety and relationships and would like to talk with you if you have questions about how I may be able to help you.
The therapeutic relationship should be collaborative.
The client is the expert on their life, and the therapist is the expert on helping the client to develop their sense of being.
Growth occurs as a result of challenges.
Therefore, I would suggest not looking to train the therapist, but rather to find one that will help you develop into the you that you desire to be.
Finding the right therapist is like finding a pair of black heels.
Not just any black heels will do.
But when you find them, you just know that your search is over.
It is also wise to expect that they won't always feel comfortable.
You'll know you have the right therapist when after the first few sessions you feel comfortable enough to tell them things you wouldn't tell anyone else.
It's important in therapy for that rapport to be built from the beginning and that you as the client feel comfortable enough to share what you need to share.
You shouldn't feel judgement from your therapist and you should be able to trust the advice your therapist provides.
Therapy isn't about advice, don't get me wrong, but to truly implement the changes that need to be implemented to improve your life you need to trust the person giving the advice.
Your therapist should have your best interest at heart and truly listen to what you have to say.
The therapist should be willing to meet you where you are in your world and attempt to see the world from your perspective to truly understand what you have been through.
You need to feel comfortable in therapy to be yourself and say what's on your mind.
Therapy shouldn't be something that should be dreaded but it can get uncomfortable depending on the depth of the things being discussed.
Finding the right therapist can be difficult, especially if you've never tried it before.
Things to consider are location, availability and what specifically are you looking for.
Some practitioners specifically only work with a certain type of issue (i.
e eating disorders, adolescents, anger management, life transitions, anxiety,etc) and others can work with a variety of concerns.
As far as training your therapist, you can't.
You simply let them know what you are looking to work on or what you think may be an issue for you.
Depending on the way they practice(their style of working with clients) is how they will then decide to make a treatment plan that works best for you.
You can always ask them their specialty practice population, the problems they generally help others with and what type of mental health provider they are.
Choosing the right therapist can sometimes feel a bit overwhelming.
I know many people come to therapy with hesitations and potential fears but a therapist should be there to help you along the way and support you as you build a trusting and collaborative relationship.
You won't have to "train" your therapist to give you what you need.
Through open dialogue and feedback you and your therapist, together, can determine what works best for you.
But do remember that being able to trust your therapist to guide and support you is key.
So if you're having a hard time connecting with your therapist after 3-4 sessions, you will want to bring it up to them so you can discuss any barriers and if needed, request a referral for another therapist.
Counselors do not expect to gain your trust during the first session.
Trust is earned and gained through the therapeutic process.
You may know you have the right therapist if you feel a lack of judgement or even unconditional positive regard for the choices you make in therapy.
Good counselors will keep you accountable for your actions without making you feel ashamed of the choice you made.
Counselors already have the training to give you what you need in treatment, and if they don't they are ethically obligated to refer you to a provider that does.
That being said, the first few visits with your counselor will be goal oriented-creating realistic and obtainable goals that will allow you and your therapist to see positive change when it is made.
You will know you have the right therapist when you feel at ease and comfortable to share deep feelings.
You do not hold back and feel total acceptance and validation by your therapist.
Listen to your feelings and letthem guide your decision.
Your therapist and you will work together to decide what is best for you with regards to the type of treatment, frequency andduration.
It is about collaborating and deciding together on the treatment plan that will help you to achieve your counseling goals.
The most important thing is it has to feel right.
While that sounds vague and not very scientific it is the most important part of therapy.
Us counselors call it therapeutic rapport and without it therapy is not very effective.
You want to know you can trust your therapist, that you are not being judged, that they respect your privacy, that you feel comfortable talking to them about the good and the bad.
You want to feel heard and know you therapist is genuine.
Not all therapist are a good fit for everyone.
Go with your gut.
As an added note I recommend going with a therapist who has done their own therapy!
What an important question!
I think one of the first things to assess is this: Do you feel comfortable with your therapist?
Do you feel like you can talk openly about what's going on in your life without feeling judged?
Do you experience your therapy as a safe space to process your thoughts and feelings?
Feeling comfortable with your therapist is a crucial factor.
Once you feel comfortable with your therapist, you can have a conversation about what works for you in therapy.
Tell your therapist what is helpful, and what you don't find helpful.
A skilled therapist can shift his or her style and techniques to meet your individual needs, and this may be an ongoing conversation that the two of you have during therapy.
Oftentimes, there is just an X factor between client and therapist that either makes the relationship work or can make it feel like something is missing.
This is no one's fault, it's just that not every therapist will be a perfect match for every client.
If you feel uncomfortable with your therapist or feel like that x factor is missing, it is a good idea to keep searching for therapist who is right for you.
This is a great question.
Finding the right therapist can be tricky because you don't really know how someone will be like until you meet them.
Once you meet your therapist it is important to be clear with your wishes and expectations.
We are trained in helping you thrive in your life but we cannot mind read so if you don't tell us, we won't know.
Don't be shy about what you like and what you don't like.
A good therapist will listen to your needs, process them with you, and create a customized plan that works for you and your life.
A good therapist will also not take anything you say (even criticism) personally.
Coming to therapy is hard and often times you might not want to go.
What makes a good therapist is someone who understands this and tries to make you feel as comfortable as possible while you address uncomfortable topics.
I believe that the right counsellor will help you feel empowered, supported and understood.
You should feel comfortable opening up and not be concerned that they will judge you for what you say or decide to do.
I find this important to let my clients know during intake that they will never be judged for the decisions they decide to take while going over options in sessions together with me.
In terms of what you need from treatment, please feel comfortable to open up to your therapist and tell them what you need from them.
For example, do you prefer them to challenge you with questions, listen to your story and ask questions throughout or near the end, give you work to do outside of sessions?
The therapy sessions will work best for you if you can help them support you in what will work for you.
It can sometimes take a few trials of different therapists to find the right one so please do not give up if you feel disheartened!
You should feel proud of yourself for taking the first big step in asking for help, that is not easy to do and you are on the right track already!
Such a good question!
Sometimes, clients will feel like they are not connecting with their therapist and will put it on themselves.
In truth, the bond between therapist and client is the #1 predictor of positive outcomes in therapy.
Ask yourself these questions: does it feel like this person can come to care about me?
Do they remember from week to week what we touched on?
Do I feel compassion from this person?
Do they allow me my difficult and painful feelings too, or do they try to rescue me?
On your other question - I suggest you ask your therapist what goals he/she has for your treatment.
See if they respond with interest and participation, or if they become clinical and distant.
Ideally, you and your therapist jointly develop your goals, and check on your progress on a frequent basis.
I don't know if you can actually 'train' your therapist - we can be a hard bunch to train!
:-) - but you can definitely tell your therapist what works for you, and what didn't work, at the end of each session.
How they react will also tell you a lot about whether this is the right person for you.
"This is a great question.
There could be a few ways to know that you've found a good fit and you and your therapist are therapeutically compatible.
First, I would recommend listening to your intuition and pay attention to how you feel, if there are feeling-indicators that you are comfortable, feel safe and willing to open up and share your story.
Second, do you feel the therapist you are considering will support and challenge you in ways you need.
Some therapist offers a free consultation.
This might be a good opportunity to take advantage of.
Good question!
The client's job is to concentrate on stating the details of their problem and to thoughtfully engage in a dialogue about these areas with the therapist.
The most difficult job for a client is willingness to self-examine, hold oneself accountable for relationship and life situations, and honestly feel the difficult, often painful feelings and insecurities which troubling situations create.
The client doesn't train the therapist.
If you feel you are with a therapist who requires you to train them, then politely decline continuing to pay for their services.
Then find yourself a different therapist who feels secure and knowledgeable enough in their skills to not require training by their client.
Thinking whether or not you have the right therapist can be overwhelming if you are not sure what you want or need.
But think of this, you feel safe and comfortable that you share what you've never told anybody.
You feel understood and listened to.
You feel their support.
You trust them.
Do you believe they can help you?
If you do not, then that might make it hard for you to want to open up.
As far as how would you how to train your therapist to help you.
If you know what you need all you have to do is share this with your therapist.
If you don't know then therapy is a collaborative process so both you and your therapist will work together to figure out your needs and how to best meet them.
The "right" therapist is a combination of expertise in the areas where you require, and fit as far as how comfortable you feel in speaking and sharing with that person.
People generally are quite good at determining whether or not someone fits well with their personality and style; and another key to know whether therapy is working is to ask yourself: "Do I see that changes have come about since working with this therapist?
Do I feel better?
Am I reaching goals that I set at the onset of therapy?
Are difficult situations becoming easier by how I handle them?
Training a therapist really isn't necessary, as all it requires is open and honest communication in order to give effective feedback that will in turn be helpful to you and your goals.
You have the right therapist if you feel safe with that person.
Safety consists of feeling that who you are and what you say is valued.
The right therapist is not an 'all knowing person you must obey'.
He or she is a person with skilled knowledge who respects you as a partner in your self discovery.
The right therapist is also one who is kind.
This is a really important question, because you don't want to waste your time and money with a therapist who is not a good fit for you.
I think the most important factor that makes a good therapist match is trust-- do you trust this person to be able to help you meet your therapy goals?
There are few things you can do upfront to test this out, without spending a dime.
First, ask for personal recommendations from friends or others.
If you know someone who had a great experience with a certain therapist, you'll feel more confident in that person right off the bat.
Second, do your online research.
Google the person's name and read everything you can find.
Many therapists are starting to develop more of an online presence because they know that's a way future clients can develop trust without even stepping in their door.
See if they have a blog, social media posts, or even just read the tone of the content on their website.
This might give you a glimpse of their therapy style.
Finally, you can call or email potential therapists and provide a brief overview of your presenting problem and describe what you're looking for in your ideal therapist.
It sounds like you have a specific idea of what you're looking for, most therapists will be honest if they don't feel they're going to meet your expectations.
Some therapists offer free short phone consultations which can help you both decide if you would work well together.
Do your homework upfront, and you'll be well on your way to finding a great therapist for you!
It's more than just normal, it's expected!
Quite honestly, there are a very few days where at least one client hasn't cried during therapy throughout the day.
Yes it is absolutely normal!
A good therapist can help your feel safe enough to really identify painful wounds.
There are some things that need to be cried about before they can heal.
Therapists are fine with tears and buy tissues by the case.
That said, if you don't cry during therapy it doesn't mean you are doing it "wrong".
As long as you feel safe and have a sense that your therapist "gets you", and you feel progress during your course of treatment, you are doing therapy "right"!
Absolutely it's normal to cry in therapy sessions.
Sometimes clients have stories they never shared with anyone or never said out loud and that results to crying.
Crying is a normal reaction to feeling hurt or sad or sometimes angry.
I welcome all crying to my therapy room.
Crying in therapy is a natural response, a relief to what you are going through.
It is an expression of emotions, which is why you are going to therapy - to express yourself in a safe, nonjudgmental space.
Rather than trying to stop crying, sit on the couch with it until it is done and you have finished with the clearing.
The energy is not blocked, is moving - a good thing.
It's good to cry.
Although not everyone cries in therapy.
In my opinion crying is a emotion that some express in therapy.
Crying is something that some express when it's hard to discuss situations that may have never been discussed, When discussing traumatic experiences, and at times crying has even happened to some of my past clients when they have had a breakthrough in their therapy process.
It is generally very normal to cry in therapy, and for many reasons.
Therapy should be a safe space to explore emotions as they come up and how you cope with these emotions.
I would encourage you to talk with your therapist about crying and to explore your experience of emotions/feelings.
Sometimes people will apologize for crying.
However, emotions and expression of emotions is part of being human.
There is no "right" or "wrong" emotion to have.
How we express and cope with emotions is more of something to explore in therapy if it is hindering your life.
Either extreme of keeping emotions in and avoiding or feeling like your emotions run your life/struggle to regulate your emotions is something to explore in therapy, as this is often the most distressing and troublesome for people.
Hopefully this provides some insight.
It is absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
Therapy is a place to be honest about and explore your feelings without feeling judged.
Honesty is the only way you will benefit from therapy and that means being willing to look at your true emotions rather than avoiding them.
"Absolutely!
Therapy is the best time to have the opportunity to open up and deal with the range of emotions that may be bothering you.
Therapy is a safe space to take time out of your normal daily life and cope with the emotions that are hiding underneath.
If, for some reason, you are not comfortable in therapy, you should address this concern with your therapist or find someone whom you feel more comfortable opening up with and express yourself comfortably.
Crying is clearing.
It is a release of energy and toxins.
Crying is a good thing and a great way to let go and move forward!
Therapy is such a personal process and often brings many emotions to the forefront, so yes, it very normal to cry in therapy.
Often you are talking about your deepest challenges and fears, so it is quite typical to expect some tears when making yourself so vulnerable.
It's absolutely normal.
Therapy provides a space where you can be free to express yourself and experience all of your emotions fully.
Crying is a form of release, and many people feel like they do not have any other space where they can let out their emotions.
Crying can be a healthy way to be present with your emotions.
While not everyone will cry during a therapy session, you're not the first, and definitely not the last.
Dang right it's normal, and even necessary at times.
Weeping provides chemical shifts which also shift the experience you're having.
Not only are their physical detoxification benefits to crying, but there are also emotional releases that come with it.
Weeping can be the first step to an unclogging of a blockage, so that your energy can flow more smoothly.
This is one of those cases where there is "no wrong answer.
Many people DO cry, while others do not.
Some people speak quietly, others may yell, and some find it painfully difficult to say anything at all in a therapeutic setting.
My office has tissues readily on hand, and any client who uses them is assured that they are free to express the emotions they feel in a safe space.
For many people, crying is a stress-release valve.
It is perfectly OK to cry in counseling!
I love to see tears!
There's an old saying, "The eyes are the windows to the soul.
External emotions are a pretty good indicator of what's going on inside the person, and if tears are present, that often means the person is processing (moving forward) through their emotions!
I'm more concerned when I don't see tears from my clients because that can mean the client is "stuck.
So, don't feel bad for crying!
You are moving through your emotions to a place of healing!
Of course you can cry!
Therapy is a safe place where you can be who you are with no fear of being judged.
Every counselor/therapist is dedicated to protect the confidentiality (with some exceptions) of all that happens in session.
Crying helps to release tension and help secure free emotional space.
It may provide you with the presence of mind that therapy demands.
Absolutely normal!
Therapy should be a place where you can feel safe to explore and express all of your emotions.
Some clients may cry easier than others and there is no "right way" to do therapy.
I have many clients who cry each session.
And I have many other clients who cry periodically.
And I have others who haven't cried once.
Each person is different however therapy should be a place where you feel safe expressing yourself.
Of course!
There are some people who will never cry during sessions and some that always cry.
In counseling you may be talking about very vulnerable topics and experiences and it may even be the first time you are talking to someone about your concerns, thoughts, or feelings.
It is perfectly natural to cry if you are so moved.
Yes, it's totally normal!
Crying is a part of processing the tough stuff, no matter your age, gender or background and the therapeutic session is a safe space to do this.
Sometimes crying can offer relief or provide room for deeper authenticity in session as you let both your strength and vulnerability shine in alignment.
Crying during a therapy session is not unusual.
When we are in a safe environment, such as a therapists office, it allows us to disarm our defenses.
By disarming our defenses we are able to feel and express our emotions.
Oftentimes, these emotions result in tears.
I personally feel that crying in a therapy session is the one of the most beautiful parts of the healing process.
Yes, it is very normal.
Some people cry frequently, but not fully.
They're good at crying but never seem to heal from what's hurting them.
Crying is supposed to be good for you.
Tears contain toxins, after all.
And feel-good chemicals are released in the body whenever we cry tears of sadness.
Never judge your feelings while you're having them; there's always a reason something's a big deal to you.
Cry for your own pain, not just for others'.
Crying in movies and when listening to sad songs is a good way to let off some built-up emotion.
But you may not be dealing directly with your own hurts when that happens.
Remember it's okay to cry for yourself.
Let yourself cry over spilt milk.
You don't have to wait till somebody dies.
You can cry about anything that triggers you, no matter how seemingly trivial.
Don't set a time limit on tears.
Your heart will decide when enough is enough.
If you connect with the true source of your pain, you'll find it's finite.
But you don't get to dictate a time limit for your sorrow.
Be patient.
Pick up where you left off.
If you have to keep a stiff upper lip, perhaps because you're at work, check in with yourself later and see how you feel.
Reflect on the incident in private if you feel it's unresolved.
Don't stress out if you can't recapture the pain.
Tears are like cats: You can't lead them on a leash.
Speak only kind words to yourself.
When you cry, watch for self-critical and invalidatingself-talklike this:It's not that big a dealI'm too sensitiveBig boys/girls don't cryInstead, say, I'm sorry and I'm with you and I love you.
Don't say these things in order to make yourself stop crying.
Say them in order to be compassionate to yourself.
Cry in public.
If you've never cried in public before, you may be surprised to find that many people will be drawn to you.
Your tears make you vulnerable, and therefore no threat to others.
Kindness is a frequent response to public tears.
If you remember just one thing from this post, let it beself-compassion.
Yes, many people cry during therapy!
Crying can offer a type of release as your body reacts to the input of your autonomic nervous system.
Some people release endorphins when they cry, which can make you feel better than before.
If you're concerned about how much you cry during therapy, it might be good to discuss with your therapist.
They may be able to make some suggestions of how to honor your feelings in a way that works for you.
Yes, it is normal to experience many different emotions in therapy because you are dealing with issues and situations that matter to you.
Sometimes you may cry, sometimes you may feel joy, and sometimes you may feel relief.
Sometimes you might even feel anger.
Everything you feel in therapy can be used to help you learn more about yourself and help you grow.
Yes, it is very normal to cry during a therapy appointment.
When you meet with a counselor, you are opening yourself up and sharing very vulnerable sides of yourself.
Through this deep introspection, emotions (sometimes unexpected) can come out and this is completely okay and very healthy.
Research has shown that crying reduces pain by releasing oxytocin and endorphins and reduces stress through the release of stress reduction hormones.
Definitely. Therapy helps us work through the tough stuff.
It's a safe place where we can let our guards down.
When you are getting things out verbally, a physical and emotional response is completely natural.
Crying is a healthy release.
Many people cry during therapy - some perhaps once in a while, and others may every session.
Wherever you are on that spectrum, it is absolutely normal and you are not at all alone.
Yes, absolutely.
In therapy you will be delving into topics and feelings that are often suppressed throughout daily life.
As you explore many emotions may come up, anger, disappointment, grief, frustration, sadness, to name a few.
These and many other emotions often lead to crying and your therapist will be there to hold space and support you through it.
Crying is a very healthy release of energy so feeling comfortable enough with your therapist that it happens during session is a great thing!
It's absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
I imagine that you are being vulnerable and open to exploring some deep seeded issues.
Also, it may be a good sign that you feel safe and held with your therapist that you are able to freely express those strong emotions.
Change is about giving a new meaning to past experience, to allow for the emotions we stored in our body to be freed.
Crying is normal and one way to process emotions to help let go and integrate our experiences.
Yep. Counseling can be very emotional at times.
I've recommended to clients, on occasion, that they allow themselves the rest of the day off after doing trauma work.
"Crying in therapy is definitely normal.
A lot of people, if not most, cry in therapy.
Why does it happen?
During therapy you'll explore your thoughts and emotions.
Some of them will be pleasant: joy, hope, excitement, so you will smile and laugh.
Others may be more unpleasant, such as grief, sadness or anger, so you may feel like shouting or crying.
It's healthy to accept and feel all your emotions and to express them in appropriate ways.
Crying is a good way of expressing sadness, disappointment and helplessness.
If you try to cut off some.
of the "negative" feelings, you are likely to also cut off your positive ones and feel numb as a result.
Crying in therapy speaks to your ability to relax and let go in the presence of another human being (essential for healthy relationships) and it also speaks to your therapist's skills at making you feel safe and comfortable.
Good for you!
It's your therapy and you can cry if you want to!
Yes, it is very normal to cry in therapy.
Expressing your feelings is very cathartic and allows you to gain a deeper understanding into yourself and how the issue is affecting you.
I would say that's the whole point of therapy!
Cry your heart out.
Therapy should be a place where you feel ok to be vulnerable when you are working through your stuff.
It's when your mind and your heart finally meet and you make the connections you need to make.
It is normal to feel an array of emotions in therapy.
Most people use therapy as a way to process their life's struggles and often times this results in them crying during session.
Crying is a way to release those negative emotions and to cope with what is happening in life.
We have come to believe that crying is something bad at times and so have conditioned ourselves to avoid crying out in public places.
In therapy though, where there are no such expectations and where you can be open and honest about how you are feeling it is normal to cry.
Yes, definitely crying is normal during therapy.
Anyone in the midst of new awareness of how they've been hurt, or feel despair or great sadness from burdensome life situations, naturally will feel tears come up.
Therapists are familiar with people crying during a session and will know how to be present for you while you sort through your painful emotions.
Therapy is by nature a safe place to discuss difficult, or painful memories or experiences and thereby it is normal that feelings of all kinds, including sadness, loss, frustration, disappointment, etc may arise.
This is part of processing and bringing closure to things that may have been pushed aside for a lifetime and can now be faced and dealt with.
Change too is often not easy, and can lead to crying, whether from frustration and set back, or also from joy and accomplishment!
This is a great question!
I often wonder about what normal really means.
Counseling is a personal process where many emotions can be experienced by people.
I I do not believe it is just you who cries in therapy.
Therapy can bring out many emotions such as laughter, anger, frustration, relief, grief, sadness, and many more emotions.
Talking to your counselor about your experience might provide insight and healing for you.
If crying surprised you and you feel comfortable that might be something you could bring up with your counselor.
Yes, it is normal to cry during therapy, it is a time of catharsis, letting things out, shedding our skin, dropping our weights and just to let you know, even therapists sometimes feel like crying in sessions.
Although people often cry or become upset, it is in no way a measure of "good therapy".
It is very routine to feel all of the different emotions in therapy.
I have had clients cry in therapy out of happiness, sadness, love, joy, and from laughing so hard!
Yes, crying is a normal part of therapy for many people.
Let me start by saying there are never too many concerns that you can bring into counselling.
In fact, most people who come to see me for counselling have more than one issue they would like to work on in psychotherapy and most times these are all interconnected.
In counselling, we work together, collaboratively, to figure out which issues you would like to address first and then together we develop an individualized plan of care.
Basically, it's like a road map of where you want to go, how are you going to get there, looking at stopovers, some scenic routes others possibly not so scenic, however, necessary.
Of course, these plans can also change due to internal (what we have control over like our thoughts, feelings and behaviours) or external reasons (those things that are outside our control).
I would encourage you to take the next step and reach out to a professional you can trust and build rapport with by co-journeying through whatever concerns you have by examining what has been working so far as you have learned to cope with some of your issues like insomnia, depression and anxiety, as well as being a breast cancer survivor.
Then to help you by developing new coping strategies.
Psychotherapy can be such a powerful tool to help you get to where it is you want to be.
I know you can do it and you will see first-hand how psychotherapy will help you to move past these points in your life where you are feeling stuck.
It is never too late to get help and begin making significant changes and improvements in your life.
The right time is when you feel ready and open to change.
Sometimes when we have a history of trauma, like sexual abuse, the impact of that trauma can affect many areas of our lives as adults.
Working with a therapist who specializes in trauma is a great way to begin developing skills to manage present day life, learn to regulate your emotions and nervous system when you become triggered, and then in a safe environment have the opportunity to process past traumas so you can live your present life with more ease and joy.
People can and do recover from the impacts of trauma at any stage in their life.
It is never too late and you can feel better.
You have been through so much and it sounds like you have a lot of things that have complied over the years.
Regardless of the struggles you have been through, you do not have too many issues for counseling.
Many times when someone starts out their counseling and healing journey, there are multiple things they would like to address and work on.
If you decide to start counseling, you and your therapist can decide collaboratively what you would like to process and work on first.
Be sure to express to your counselor if any of the above experiences you've been through is causing a lot of distress, as many times the first things addressed are the ones that are presently affecting your life or you emotionally.
Often times when we experience negative situations in our life, but do not address them, they bottle up inside us and can manifest in other ways, such as depression or even physical symptoms like IBS or neck pain.
Counseling can give these bottled up emotions and situations a release.
Given the situation you shared, not only do I not think that you have too many issues for counseling, but believe that you will be a great candidate and can get a lot from it.
Absolutely not.
I strongly recommending working on one issue/need at a time.
In therapy you will set smart goals and objectives that will help you reach your goals.
I see you as a survivor and not a victim.
Best wishes to you.
Absolutely not!
In fact, most people have many issues, A lot lot of the issues you are describing commonly go hand in hand ( in "therapy speak" we call it co-morbid conditions)I would venture that most of the feelings you are struggling with stem from your early trauma.
You would benefit tremendously from counseling!
A good therapist will develop a treatment plan that addresses all of your needs.
With help you could definitely live a happy life without all of your anxiety and depression getting in the way!
This is a great question!
I personally don't believe that any client could ever have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, that type of thinking may be stopping you from seeking counseling, so it may be hindering you from getting the help you need.
In fact, all of what you described points to the importance of you seeking help in order to cope with the many challenges in your life.
If you seek counseling, it will be important for you to understand that you may need to remain in counseling for a sustained period of time in order to work through each of these issues.
All of these issues won't be able to be solved right away or in a brief period of time.
Counseling will take commitment and hard work, but it is possible for you to recover and heal from all of the issues you described.
Many clients come into counseling with numerous issues rather than just one particular thing.
Most of the time, the issues relate to and exacerbate each other.
We call these "comorbid" conditions, which means that two or more mental health problems exist at one time.
A lot of the times, when you start to work on one issue, the other issues get better as a result.
I encourage you to find a professional therapist that can help you learn how to cope with all of the mental health difficulties that you described.
You deserve the help just as much as anyone else.
Hi! Many people begin their therapeutic journey with histories just like yours and experience transformative shifts in their quality of life.
I hope you are able to find a counselor you feel comfortable working with and do the work if you feel called.
Best of luck on your journey!
Absolutely not.
It sounds like you have significant trauma and it will continue to impact your depression until it is dealt with.
Everybody has issues, though some more traumatic than others yet it is best to just start somewhere.
I would encourage you to begin counseling and work through some of your history at your own pace in order to begin to impact and reduce your depressive symptoms.
Most clients have many issues that need working out.
It is normal to have many events in our lives that trouble us and remain with us without counseling help.
The right type of counsellor will help you focus on the main and most troubling issue you have first and work your way through all that you are managing step by step, goal by goal.
Sometimes, working on one issue helps to bring other issues to light in the context of your main problem.
This can help you resolve some other issues that are connected.
Look for someone with experience and specialty in your most pressing issue,even though you have had breast cancer, you may find that grief from your past is more troubling.
Then you would look for a bereavement or grief specialist.
Just go!
You start with the most prevalent issue by talking with your therapist.
Healing one issue can have a ripple effect and heal other issues as well.
There is no such thing as too many issues for counseling.
Many issues are often interrelated and can all be worked on with some time and patience.
Hi, people who have only a few issues and people who have several issues are perfect for therapy.
There is no such thing as having too many problems for therapy.
Therapy is great because it will help you process all that you are going through, heal from past and present pain, and gain clarity.
Yeah, you might.
At least, it certainly feels like that, I bet,Not to mention that most counselors out there might generally feel overwhelmed with a "case" with so many problems.
And, so, you will slog along week-to-week with gradual improvements occurring as she slowly does her best to chip away,The real issue is that these folks don't yet comprehend the integrative nature of each of these subjects and how generally simple it is to understand them, and then eradicate them.
It could be said that you might be the perfect candidate for counseling!
No one is beyond hope, and someone brave enough to be honest regarding their struggles, with the intention of reaching out for help is certainly a person a qualified counselor would be happy to assist.
You may want to do some research on therapists in your local area who specialize in mind-body connection, or one of the struggles you have acknowledged in your post, in order to find a therapist that is best suited to meet your needs.
Good luck on your search, and remember that the world is a better place with you in it.
No, there are never too many issues to address in counseling.
Therapy would begin by prioritizing what you feel needs to be addressed first.
As one area improves, such as processing history of abuse you are likely to see improvement in other areas of your life, like sleeping better.
"Firstly, I would like to say how amazing that you have been able to live through breast cancer, sexual abuse as well as your depression and anxiety.
You are stronger than you may believe at this moment for being able to continue to grow and live through these experiences.
Take a moment to acknowledge your strength and know that this strength will be an asset during the therapeutic process that you will be able to tap into to find increased self esteem and more strength to address the concerns you are having.
There are never too many concerns to address in therapy sessions.
I hope you can find a great therapist who you can trust to listen and work with you to identify and address.
the most concerning issues first.
Once you begin to do this you may find an alleviation of symptoms and feelings which could allow you to grow your capacity to manage difficult feelings and situations and address additional concerns.
Before you even realize it the issues you are having will begin to feel more manageable.
Absolutely not!
It is never too much.
The most important thing is that you are reaching out to get help.
Therapy helps you to develop healthier coping strategies and that can help reduce the anxiety and depression as well as improve your sleep.
This can all be done at a pace that is best for you.
Your therapist can help you process all of this in a safe and supportive space.
No, it is natural for us to have a number of issues going on if we don't address the concerns we have in our lives.
Seeking counseling can assist you in working on these issues individually as well as ways in which they intersect and impact each other.
The most direct answer is no.
I would venture to guess that several of the things you are feeling (symptoms) are connected.
I would recommend a trauma counselor.
You have several strengths (resources) that you are able to pull from and I would encourage you to focus on them as you deal with the issues you have placed on the back burner for so long.
Sometimes people are afraid to address things because they feel or believe that they won't be able to handle it.
Compare it to a tornado.
The storm has passed, but you are still in hiding for fear of the aftermath (the mess left behind).
A good therapist is like a personal organizer to help you.
It's not really a question of whether you have too many issues for counseling but more what would you like to work on in counseling?
You control the direction of sessions and depending on how you're feeling in a particular day can predict what direction that session takes.
If you want to work on all the issues you've listed it will just take some dedication on your part to see through the counseling long enough to find a resolution to each of the issues that is satisfactory to you.
You work at your own pace in counseling and it does seem like you may be overwhelmed with the ever-growing list.
But you may just be in search of self improvement and making yourself better, which is a great thing.
It seems as though you may need some form of resolution to what has happened in the past and to work through the trauma you have experienced.
That may be the base of your counseling needs in which self esteem and depression/anxiety may fall underneath it as well.
If you want to start counseling don't let what you need to work on overwhelm you.
Find the counselor that best fits with you and together you both can tackle any issue.
A person never has "too many" issues to address in counseling.
Participating in counseling with a licensed professional offers a safe place and therapeutic relationship where healing can occur.
A trained therapist can help a person unpack and process past and/or current wounds (or events) which may negatively impact day to day living.
They can also help make sense of thoughts and emotions that sometimes feel overwhelming and confusing.
If you want to experience more emotional freedom and gain some tools to help understand and cope with depression and anxiety, I'd encourage you to schedule an appointment with a therapist in your area.
There is no such things as "too many issues".
Many of the issues cited here are connected.
For example, in this case working on the sexual abuse will possibly address the depression, the anxiety, the self esteem.
There may be some grief to process around the impact of the cancer.
Our body, mind and spirit are parts of one system.
They are interconnected.
Addressing these issue are important so you can be relieved of the burden and feel more spontaneous and enjoy life even more.
Of course not.
Counseling is a process, whereby you and your therapist will help you create goals- starting with issues that are most pressing and interfering with your daily functioning.
When anxiety and daily stress is more manageable then you and your therapist can examine more deep rooted or more chronic issues.
You definitely don't have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, counseling can help you understand how most of these things can be related to one another.
For example, insomnia, depression, low self-esteem and anxiety are very common to experience after a traumatic event or events.
Once you begin to work through processing these life altering events that you have experienced, the hope is that you would see a decrease in your other symptoms.
You absolutely do not have too many issues for counselling.
The fact that you are wanting to seek help is commendable and you should feel proud of yourself for reaching out for support.
I know from my experience working with clients that some may say they have only one issue but when we explore it turns out they have many things that they want to discuss that are of equal importance.
I believe that you deserve to feel happy, at ease and also get restful sleep amongst other things.
Please do not feel hesitant because the fact that you know what you want to discuss and work on is amazing.
You know the directions you want to go and the therapist just needs to help you get there.
I suggest sitting down and making a list of what you want to discuss as well as what you feel is more important to address first.
Perhaps the therapist can help you with that as well.
Thank you for sharing your question.
I imagine it feels overwhelming and discouraging at times if you feel like there are too many issues to address in a counseling session.
I would encourage you to share these concerns with a counselor because a counselor can help you organize the concerns into a list of specific goals.
For example, a list of goals may look similar to this:1.
"I will learn about the effects of medication on the symptoms of depression and anxiety."
"I will learn about the factors that affect insomnia."
"I will learn about resources and support groups in my local area to help me cope with my traumatic experiences."
"I will practice self-care exercises each day and write about my thoughts and feelings in a journal so I can measure whether or not I"m making progress."
This is an example of some of the possible goals a counselor can help you work toward each week.
Working toward a specific goal can lead to a feeling of accomplishment once you've completed it, and this may have a positive impact on your self-esteem.
I hope this information helps, and I wish you all the best!
There are never too many issues in living.
In a way we take on too many issues at one time.
Then we become over whelmed with "anxiety and depression.
A skillful, caring therapist will help you find a place to start and deal with one issue at a time.
when this helps the other issues.
Then the other issues become more manageable.
I gain.
confidence I can take on life better and, importantly, enjoy living life more.
There are never "too many issues" to be addressed in therapy.
Most people come in with multiple issues they want to address.
The wonderful thing about therapy, is that often, as one or more significant issues begin to change and improve- the lead naturally without much effort to improvements in the other areas.
(For example, as you begin to address trauma and betrayal from you past, you may find that the insomnia improves).
Your therapist, with you input and direction, can help you to prioritize which problem areas to target first.
You can be helped.
Many of the people I see have multiple issues.
These issues are often linked so that helping one issue will positively help the other issues.
The short answer is: absolutely not!
The longer answer is that it might take some time to process all of the issues, and it may feel quite "muddy" in the issues for a lot longer than is tolerable (which is why counseling may have been postponed to begin with for you) It's important to be realistic when entering counseling of any sort, and that the therapist be realistic with you about what you might be able to expect working with that person (I use the words "might be able to expect" because therapy experiences can vary).
But that not having counseling about trauma that you have experienced much earlier in your life can play a significant role in the process and how long that process could take to unpack all that may have been buried over time.
It might also be helpful in counseling to work with the therapist on figuring out where to begin, but to also manage the feelings of being overwhelmed that may make it hard to continue to show up and do the work required, week in and week out.
It isn't easy work trying to process past pain that you experienced, and so consistent practice of self-care, including leaning on support systems outside of therapy, is key.
Usually people who struggle with depression also have symptoms of anxiety.
These symptoms come about as a result of underlying causes.
The obstacles you have been overcoming such as abuse, cancer and insomnia likely bring about similar feelings and emotions in you which affect your self-esteem.
Counseling is meant to support people who have layers of difficulties.
We see the difficulties as layers to an onion, peeling away the many layers.
Often times when an individual begins the counseling process it is revealed that there is more than one thing going on.
When we think about how much is wrong, it can be overwhelming and we may not know where to even start.
Counseling can provide guidance to help you to begin working toward healing in a way that is most helpful for you to reach your goals.
It is very common forpeople to have multiple issues that they want to (and need to) address in counseling.
I have had clients ask that same question and through more exploration, there is often an underlying fear that they "can't be helped" or that they will "be too much for their therapist.
I don't know if any of this rings true for you.
But, most people have more than one problem in their lives and more often than not, people have numerous significant stressors in their lives.
Let's face it, life can be complicated!
Therapists are completely ready and equipped to handle all of the issues small or large that a client presents in session.
Most therapists over the first couple of sessions will help you prioritize the issues you are facing so that you start addressing the issues that are causing you the most distress.
You can never have too many issues to address in counseling.
All of the issues you mention above can be successfully worked through in counseling.
Absolutely not!
When we have the courage to accept the challenge to address whatever is causing us pain, the solutions often generalize to many, if not all of our symptoms.
I would suggest that unresolved trauma from sexual abuse is likely a primary contributing factor.
However, it is important that you first build a trusting relationship with a therapist experienced in trauma treatment as this is an area of specialty that not all therapists are skilled in treating.
Choosing one issue to work on, such as anxiety or depressive symptoms, and starting there will allow you the opportunity to get to know your therapist, learn coping skills for managing distressing symptoms, and establish emotional safety before jumping into trauma work.
Hello there,No one has too many issues to address in counseling.
Once you start counseling, your therapist will help you identify which issues to start working on first and which are causing you the most distress.
Once you and your therapist prioritize your concerns, you can start to address each concern, starting with the one causing the most distress for you.
It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed.
But you are also a survivor and have the benefit of a long, stable marriage.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
A good therapist will help you to partialize your goals into smaller objectives and focus in on what's most pressing for you to address first in treatment.
Hello! You may have heard the saying that counseling is like peeling the layers of an onion.
Whether a person comes to therapy with many issues on their heart and mind or whether he/she comes with something specific, one issue leads to another.
Please don't feel as though you have too many issues.
You are important and worthy.
On the plus side, you are a breast cancer survivor and have a wonderful marriage!
Seek the help that you deserve.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
And your perseverance will serve you well if you choose to engage in therapy.
The trauma and medical event you experienced topped off with chronic sleepless nights would lead to feelings of depression for many.
The emotional reaction you've had to these experiences sounds normal albeit troublesome and I would imagine intensely painful at times as well.
Therapy can help prioritize what is the most impactful issue you are grappling with.
I find in therapy that when the central issue is revealed, understood, processed, and understood again in its current context, many other areas of the person's internal experience improve.
It sounds as though something has prevented you from seeking help from a counselor in the past, and it sounds as though you are more seriously considering it now.
Therapy helps and it can help you when you're ready.
Thank you for sharing your history.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
It will help to prioritize what you would like to work on first in therapy.
Your therapist will create a treatment plan with you, which can always be changed while working together.
Therapy is a process in working towards your best life, and you deserve it.
Not at all!
Whatever issues you might have you can bring to the therapy room.
Remember therapy is about YOU, not your therapist.
You bring whatever you need to bring to the table.
Keep in mind these issues are likely related.
Remember you are a holistic being, more than just the sum of the parts.
Just like any system, when you move something in one area, things start changing in other areas as well.
Talk to your therapist to decide goals for counseling and establish priorities, and ENJOY THE RIDE!
Growing, flourishing, and finally letting go of what hurts can be a beautiful and exciting process.
You absolutely do not have "too many issues" for counseling.
Your reaching out to ask this question shows you have a resilient spirit.
Also, your happy marriage can be a support and strength to you as you embark on a counseling journey.
I would recommend that you find a counselor who specializes in trauma, sexual trauma and/or EMDR (a type of therapy that is proven to have a strong impact on healing from trauma).
Good luck!
I don't think you have too many issues for counseling.
If a client came to me for help with the same issues that you have listed here I would first want them to meet with their doctor to get a physical to rule out any biological causes to your depression, anxiety, and insomnia.
I would work with you on deciding which of these issues to tackle first.
I usually suggest starting with the issue that is easiest.
Reading through your symptoms I might choose anxiety to start with since you are in the early stages of it.
I like to give my client skills they can use right away, so I would focus on teaching you breathing exercises to manage the anxiety as well as cognitive restructuring so that when an anxious thought pops up you can talk yourself through it.
Once you felt that you had some control over the anxiety I'd start to work on some of your other concerns, but I would seek your input on what you felt like might be good to work on next.
My gut is that some of these issues would be resolved as you worked on others.
For example as you worked on your anxiety and began to process your trauma and as you began to work on self care and getting more sleep - your self esteem would probably improve.
I encourage you to meet with a therapist and ask them how they might be able to help you.
These are just some thoughts that came up for me on how I might help someone with the same or similar symptoms.
The way it goes is that all your issues are connected.
Once you work on one issue it will have a positive effect on all areas.
Slowly each issue is addressed and actually less issues will need to be addressed directly since resolving one helps your overall wellness.
So no, you do not have too many issues.
Don't give up.
Get help now and see how your life can change for the better.
I think this is a very common question that people who have never been to counseling before have.
There is a lot of anxiety in going to counseling for the first time.
This is normal.
In answer to your question, the answer is an absolute NO!
An important thing to remember about getting counseling is that it is a courageous first step towards hope and healing.
Getting help is like training to run a marathon, it is not a sprint.
You have shared a lot of issues that you are dealing with from your past, that are now negatively impacting your present, but I believe that in getting the right kind of help and support, none of them are impossible to overcome.
Part of the therapeutic process is defining and prioritizing therapy goals.
In collaboration with you, as a client, a therapist is there to help you with this process in determining what you would like to work on first.
Not getting counseling, based on the history you have shared, has the potential to put you more at risk for mental and physical health issues.
You are already seeing this happen as you begin to experience new symptoms, namely your anxiety.
In therapy, you will gain understanding and insight, as well as learn skills and strategies to manage the symptoms you are experiencing.
In conclusion, I would encourage you to reach out to a licensed counselor who has experience in treating trauma, grief/loss and will address shame.
These are three areas that I have found that gets to the core issues that are contributing to your depression and anxiety.
I believe you can get the help you need to find hope and healing.
Best of luck to you!
Hello, I'm so glad you decided to take the first step in opening a conversation first.
Deciding to go to therapy can sometimes be difficult for some, but with the right therapist, healing is possible and obtainable, even with what you've described.
To answer your question, no you do not have too many issues to go to counseling.
You've been through a lot and have been strong and at times it's helpful to have someone else to help you through it.
What I would say is to be sure and find a therapist who is experienced in sexual abuse and trauma overall.
But you absolutely do not have too many issues for counseling.
Please feel free to ask any other questions you may have regarding your situation and I hope you find the therapist you're looking for, there are many great ones out there.
Many of the issues you're experiencing may be tied together from the trauma.
Not at all my dear. Human beings are complex creatures, and in my opinion, our issues interconnect in a very nuanced web between our levels of being (for example, mind, body, and spirit).
Everything you bring up affects all three.
The truly beautiful thing about the human body is that when you begin to work on one, the others improve as well!
I would encourage you to seek out a counselor who's style and approach speaks to you and start with whichever issue feels most pressing to you.
A skilled therapist will flow with you at your own pace and make recommendations to other professionals (physicians, holistic practitioners, EMDR specialists for trauma etc) as needed to complement the psychotherapy work you're doing with him or her to help you find the total healing you seek.
I wish you well on your journey!
Everyone has topics to discuss when they start therapy.
There is no correct number of topics.
youSometimes people go to therapy for one specific area of their life.
Not everyone has the time or interest to utilize therapy just when a significant topic arises in their life.
Since you are one person, no matter how many or few topics you would like to address in therapy, all the topics relate to you.
Possibly the result of your therapy will be more transformational than if you talked only on one topic.
Lucky you, to be on the cusp of clearing and resolving many vulnerabilities at once.
You will feel brand new by the time you finish your therapy work!
1) An awareness of their own incompetence and inexperience with events in your life;2) An awareness of how the body, mind, emotions, spirit, and others all intertwine and activate one another;3) How to work to use these connections to have you improve your experience,Oh yeah, and there's some listening in there, as well.
Here is a list of skills I use every session, and a short explanation of what they are:Reflecting: Paraphrasing what clients have said so that they know you understand themValidating: Helping clients to know that their point of view is valuable and rationalClient-centered talk: Maintaining focus on the client in therapy sessions, rather than a therapist talking about themselvesAttending: Nonverbal or verbal cues that indicate I am listening to a client (nodding, leaning in, affirmations)Reframing: Helping a client to see a problematic behavior or situation in a different way (usually only works well after they feel heard and understood).
I think that the most important skill a good counselor has is the ability to empathize (whether that be natural empathy, or trained, empathy is essential) A good counselor also knows the difference between identifying with their client, and empathizing with their client.
An ability to not bring in our own baggage (we all have baggage and most are "wounded healers") into our work, as it's not about us.
If it is brought in, it should be in only a way that can help a client.
And to listen,specifically to what the client is needing.
To be non-judgemental, know who they themselves are, be able to step forward and ask questions with ease and grace into painful emotional areas.
Also to respect human difference in accomplishing basic life tasks and everyday living.
There are typically three reasons why therapy is terminated:1) Client has met therapy goals 2) Client is not progressing3) Therapist is not a good fit for clientIn order to properly assess whether therapy is helping and what progress is being made, the therapist needs to have ways of consistently checking in with clients sessions-by-session to determine what is helping, what isn't, and where the client is at in relation to their original therapy goals.
When a client has met their goals, that is a good time to end counselling sessions unless the client has new goals or simply wants to check-in periodically to make sure that they are still on track (sometimes referred to as relapse prevention).
When a client is not progressing, and feedback has been taken and attempts have been made to make the therapy more helpful for the client but to no avail, than it is considered unethical to continue to work with the client.
In these circumstances, referring out to another therapist who may be a better fit is a good idea.
Hello. The end of the counselor/client relationship is one of mutual respect and engagement.
Counseling sessions can end for any number of reasons.
Among them are the client's inability to make forward progress in therapy; the clinician's inability to help the client (for a variety of reasons); a mutually agreed upon time frame for a number of sessions to be provided; or the financial challenges of the client who decides that they need to put their resources elsewhere.
In this last case, a counselor should never cancel sessions with a client simply on the basis of the client's inability to pay.
That is traditionally seen as an unethical practice.
Other arrangements can be made to provide care to the client, which in itself should be paramount.
When the client and therapist decide that services are done, it is best if there is at least one or two more sessions to allow a case file review to occur, and to bring an appropriate psychological sense of closure to the client (and vicariously to the clinician as well, those this is perhaps not as important).
This transition gives both a sense of having reached the end of a journey,rather than some abrupt departure from it.
(An abrupt ending in therapy can have a varying level of impact both emotionally and psychologically on the client and therapist).
Sometimes the closure of therapy is the result of a program of therapy being formally completed, in which there is a mutually known (albeit perhaps approximate) date of when that program will be finished.
In this case, the client is likely feeling that impending closure and has time to prepare mentally and emotionally from a place of being the client in therapy, to a place of healing, growth and situational resolution.
I have always worked in therapy with the following slogan (if you will), that I learned years ago during graduate school: "Not every therapist is good for every client, and not every client is good for every therapist.
It is perhaps one of the most important guiding views I hold in working with clients.
The therapeutic relationship is driven by mutuality - the desire of the client to get better at living life, and the therapist's desire to truly see the client heal and grow.
When there is a block in this process from either side that prevents that synergy from occurring, the relationship that should be established may not be able to form.
Or, if already formed, may at some point be unable to move forward.
In these instances, referring the client to another type of service or clinician is appropriate.
Usually, this can be seen pretty quickly by either party, though sometimes it is not always clear.
Ultimately, the client and counselor need to work together to discover if the needs of the client (which is paramount) are being met in the therapeutic engagement with their current counselor, or if other arrangements need to be made to go elsewhere.
If both are observant in this process, they can work together to maintain that sacred space and continue to reach the goals that have been set.
Eventually, therapy will end, but hopefully based on the client's successful journey to the place where they wanted to go, and thus opening the next chapters of their life to a space that is more whole and brighter.
Hopefully both the client and counselor would together decide when to terminate counseling sessions.
It's really helpful for the client to leave counseling with a solid sense of what he or she has accomplished in counseling, so it can be a good idea to spend some time acknowledging that in the last session or sessions.
Sometimes, however, a client has needs beyond the scope of the counselor's expertise.
That's a good time for a conversation about those needs and ideas of how best to meet them, whether by adding in care with an additional mental health professional or transferring care entirely to a new mental health provider.
There are different reasons why a counselor may seek to terminate with a client and these will each have different processes by which the counselor will come to that decision.
Here are a few examples.
The counselor may determine that the client's needs are outside what the counselor is competent to be able to work with.
A person may have come to the counselor talking about a particular issue but either when they first met or as counseling progressed, it may become clear that the issue is in fact something different or that there is an additional related issue.
If that issue is outside the competence of the counselor, the counselor should look for alternatives, the most common of which would be to terminate and refer.
Beyond clinical issues, this could also come up around particular other related facts, such as the culture of the client or linguistic issues.
This could also be the choice of the counselor if they know someone that they feel would be a better match for the client's issues.
Another reason for discharge (and possible referral) would be if the relationship does not seem to be a good fit.
No counselor is the right person to work with everyone.
If the right level of connection is not happening, the counselor will often look first at what they are doing, might talk about it with the client and ultimately will admit that things don't seem to be working to allow the desired therapeutic process to work.
A similar process would be followed if the counselor determined that the client might not yet be ready for counseling as evidenced by lack of engagement such as frequent cancellations, not doing any agreed on work between sessions, showing up late or being really guarded in session.
The easiest situation to decide on is when a person has met their counseling goals and have nothing new that they are working on.
While this is the easiest one to determine, it is also probably the hardest one for the counselor as they may be like the client in not wanting the relationship to come to an end.
However, counselors know that this is part of the process.
They will also determine this by regularly reviewing the treatment plan or by sending in the sessions that the work has come to an end.
This type of termination maybe final or may be with the intent that the client will return later to address other things that have been identified but for which they are not ready to move into.
All of these (and other) situations involves the counselor being open to the relationship ending, to monitoring how things are going, then engaging in self reflection, possibly talking with the client and then coming to a conclusion on which the counselor follows through.
From the very beginning of counseling sessions I emphasize that the work will and must end at some point.
In counseling there is an arc to the process.
A beginning, middle and end.
I am always digging, searching and exploring.
There comes a point where things come to there natural ending.
I always leave an opening for continuing counseling in the future.
At least as a check in.
For most: When the money/insurance runs out.
When best: When the job is done, and you're feeling much better.
"To be able to identify a clear ending to a counseling relationship, we must have a clear understanding of the goals and limitations of treatment.
Usually, during the initial evaluation, I identify my client's short term and long term therapy goals.
As therapy progress, we verify goals on a monthly to a quarterly basis, depending on the frequency of the appointments.
Once the therapy goals have been met, there is a closing session, the counseling relationship is ended, and the client can stop attending sessions.
In some cases, the client can also establish new goals and determine if I am a good fit for their therapy needs or if they need a new provider, in which case I provide multiple referrals.
The counseling relationship could also end due to other factors like noncompliance= when a client is not committed to the agreed treatment process, or when the client's or a counselor violates the counseling relationship.
Either the counselor or the client is able to end counseling.
It is usually time to end counseling sessions when it is clear to both the client and the counselor that therapeutic goals have been reached and enough improvement has been made that the client can continue without that support.
There are exceptions to this rule, but for the most part this is when counselors begin termination.
For some clients, this is an easy process that marks the achievements they have made in working through their emotions and difficulties.
For some other clients, however, this is a difficult process in which they are losing a valuable support and are understandably anxious about what life will be like without the frequent meetings.
Ultimately, termination is different for everyone, and there are many ways that termination can be healthy and helpful.
As a therapist who believes in client self-determination above most other elements of the process, I want to as much as possible leave it up to the client to determine when they are finished.
In the case of a termination because a client's distress has resolved, I might periodically check in with the client about how therapy has been going, and if we want to re-evaluate where we are.
The more unfortunate situation would come about if I felt that I wasn't the best fit for the client.
I would offer that in words, and ideas of therapists (with names) of who I thought might be a better fit and why.
It still is up to the client whether to continue, however should they want to keep seeing me, a part of the work would be about that want (to see someone who professionally doesn't believe they can help as much as someone else)I also find it perplexing when I hear a client (or on a personal level) tell me that their therapist said they "didn't need therapy.
I don't know that I buy into that scenario all that much, because I do believe that yes, not everyone NEEDS therapy, but that everyone CAN benefit from therapy and I don't believe it is the therapist's job to deter someone from ever seeking out help of any kind.
Ideally, termination should be a mutual process.
It's not that the therapist kicks the client out at some point and says, "Okay, you're done.
Rather, over time the client will decrease the frequency with which he/she comes to session so that it may start off as weekly, then decrease to biweekly, then perhaps once every three weeks, then once/month and so on.
Throughout this process, the therapist and client should have had regular check ins about progress toward goals.
If the client feels good about where he/she is in life, he/she might decide to suspend therapy for now.
That being said, the therapist should make it very clear that if the client ever decided to return for "maintenance" therapy or a check in, he/she would always be welcome.
There is no hard and fast rule to ending or a particular time period in which it must end.
What matters most is that the client feels good about it and knows that the therapist will always be there should he/she wish to return.
For a therapist, deciding to end counseling sessions or terminate working with a client is a thoughtful and intentional decision.
One that is not entered into lightly.
While there are many considerations counselors take into account, to help answer this question, I'll offer an example of two areas that counselor's take into consideration when ending counseling sessions:Does the client need different or more specialized care than the current counselor can provide?
This requires the counselor to determine whether referring the client to another therapist or health care provider is needed.
And, has the therapeutic relationship reached treatment goal(s)?
While this question is specific to the counselor, I'd like to also add that a client, at any time, can end counseling.
In general, I usually let the client decide when this should occur, sometimes with some clients it will be a joint agreement, but even in that case it should weigh mostly on what the client feels.
In short, therapy ends when you feel your done.
C.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
There are several reasons for a counselor to decide to end counseling.
A major reason to end counseling is if the counselor feels that he or she does not have the skills or experience to work with the client.
This may happen during the intake process or after working with the client for some time.
If the clinician feels that the client is not benefitting from the therapy, it is ethical to suggest that the client terminate the therapy.
The process of termination must not injure the client and, if necessary, the clinician may need to refer the client to other treatment modalities.
Another reason to terminate working with a client is if the client needs a higher level of care.
If the client has a crisis or is at risk of hurting himself or someone else, he or she may need a higher level of care.
In this circumstance, the clinician may need to involve outside services such as a crisis unit.
A third reason to terminate with a client is if the clinician feels that he or she cannot remain professional with the client relationship.
For example, if the issues that the client is working on bring up something significant for the clinician and the clinician feels that he is unable to separate that from the professional relationship.
In this instance, the clinician should refer the client to another therapist.
Finally, if the client has reached her goals for therapy and no longer needs treatment, the clinician and client should terminate treatment.
Counseling ends when the client has received the maximum benefit from the therapist.
Even if the therapist believes the client is not making progress, the client may feel they are improving and receiving a benefit.
And the therapist may see a benefit and the client does not.
It is best to have ongoing dialogue with the client to determine when termination is appropriate.
"Goodbyes can be hard.
Chances are most of the goodbyes you have experienced in your life have been difficult.
Saying goodbye to a therapist can be different.
It can be an opportunity to create a healthy ending in a positive relationship in your life.
If you work with a therapist who is skilled, then saying goodbye can be just as transformative as the therapy itself.
It is an ending of the relationship as it existed.
It is reality cold and stark.
Therapy should end when a client does not need further assistance, is not receiving any benefit from therapy, or might be harmed by continuing to work with a particular therapist.
In the best case scenario the decision to move on from therapy and our goodbyes happens when both the therapist and the client feel like the client is ready to move on and move.
up!
Ending the therapeutic relationship should actually be worked on from the very first session.
What I mean by that is, there should be an understanding that the work we do together will have an ending and that is a good thing because it means the client has gained the skills to continue working on themselves independently.
So the first session I have with clients usually outlines a plan where the end goal is discussed and we both have an understanding of the skills the client wants to learn or what they hope to achieve.
Now sometimes there are situations where the therapist ends the relationship and the client may take.
that personally, it is hard when any relationship ends and it might bring up feelings of sadness, and fear or abandonment.
Any good therapist will end the relationship based on what is right for the client.
What are some situations where a therapist might end the relationship?
If the situation the client is dealing with is out of the therapist's scope of practice, the therapist may end the relationship and refer the client to someone else.
This is in the client's best interest.
Another reason a therapist might end the relationship is that the therapist is in a place in her life which prevents her from being objective and helpful.
A therapist who is going through a painful divorce may have difficulty working with a couple that considering divorce.
A good therapist may see that their judgement may be clouded and want to refer the client to see someone else.
This is good practice and helps the client.
If a client is actively suicidal or actively using substances then the therapist may end the relationship and refer out for a higher level of care.
The client may need to be hospitalized or may need an inpatient substance abuse treatment program.
Therapy may be terminated while they are being treated and may continue after the intensive program is completed.
Ending therapy should be a time for connection and bringing together accomplishments, or reviewing the next important step the client needs to take.
It should not be an experience of abandonment.
A skilled therapist will help a client gain a new perspective on closure.
For some clients, it may be the one time in their lives when they get a clean ending in a healthy relationship and they get to feel a sense of.
control on creating that ending.
Good luck to you!
In the best case scenario, it's a mutual discussion and decision.
If not, I've had the discussion initiated both ways, by me, when I sense the client has gone has far as they want, by lack of interest in accepting or completing homework assignments, missing or cancelling appointments, usually at the last minute, lack of participation during sessions.
Client initiates by asking me pointed questions about why the need for homework assignments, by forgetting their calendar, or their checkbook by suggesting that we make appointments over longer intervals (once a week to once a month, for example).
I rarely have had to terminate a working relationship--that's why I don't charge for the first visit, so we know if we are a good fit before we start working together.
Then I periodically ask whether the client feels we are making progress, moving in the right direction, talking about the most relevant issues etc.
In my therapy practice the decision to end therapy is mutually made together with the patient.
Otherwise, the person can end up with a sense of tremendous rejection and abandonment.
The way you'll both know therapy is coming to a close is that the discussion will feel lighter and move easily.
The person's mood will be better, they will smile more, sit in their seat in a more relaxed way, look more at ease, take better care of their appearance.
One of the ways to end therapy is to gradually decrease the frequency of the sessions.
Sometimes people who are in my practice start to come each three weeks, then monthly, then every three months.
This gives a sense of security, friendliness, and casualness to the therapy, and de-medicalizes it as though the person was treated for a medical symptom and the symptom stops completely one day.
Talk therapy is about life and life problems usually end gradually.
I end my therapy in a way which mirrors the life process in which many interaction and situation problems show their effects gradually and show different effects over time.
Hi there,There are a number of reasons why a therapeutic relationship might end including, but not limited to the client reaching their goals, the client reaching a place of acceptance where they wish to remain or even a breach within the relationship.
The last aspect should likely be taken to supervision in order to be fully processed.
All of these things could happen, and usually happen organically (again, except for the last example).
Your question, however, was about the counselor ending treatment.
This is a bit more difficult and can be very nerve-wracking.
It may be beneficial to take this with you to supervision, as well.
It's important to understand why you feel the need to end or terminate with the client, as well.
Do you feel that they would be better suited for another therapist, have they achieved their goals or is it something else?
In regular, open-ended sessions, I try to make a point of checking in with the clients fairly frequently.
In these check-ins, I use the time to ask the client how they feel about the sessions and if there is anything they wish to focus on more astutely.
I also ask if they have any immediate goals that they would like to prioritize.
In goal-oriented sessions, I check in more frequently to ensure that both the client and I remain focused and, should they wish to shift their focus, that they recognize it is part of my responsibilities to make sure we move back to the desired goal.
Often, especially in longer term therapeutic relationships, we as clinicians can see that the client has reached their goal, however they are apprehensive about ending therapy.
This is actually a great place to go with them; why would they feel unable to handle issues in their external or internal environment without you?
Often, having this open discussion can increase empowerment and mastery.
That said, it could also highlight other issues which the client may have been apprehensive about going into within therapy and now, as the relationship seems to be ending, feels more confident in bringing these up.
In the case where the relationship is a toxic one, terminating with a client may be the best option for both of you.
It's a difficult conversation, but recall that part of the role of the therapist is to model that these discomforts can be managed.
I hope that this brief response can assist you going forward!
This is a question that is very specific to each person.
There are definitely some variables, but I can give you some general ideas for when counseling might end:When a client has met all of their goals, at least to a degree when they feel that they no longer need to work on them with the assistance of a counselorSometimes a decision is made that a client is no longer benefiting from counseling at a certain timeSometimes clients have to remain in counseling in order to receive medication.
This depends on agency policy, but sometimes it is a requirement.
If the medication is necessary and cannot be prescribed by a primary care physician, frequency of sessions is usually decreased greatlyI'm not sure why you are asking this question, but it is also something that is often discussed at the beginning of treatment.
Oftentimes "discharge goals" change as treatment progresses because more is known about clients, their goals, changes in their goals, and many other things.
Changes are normal, but your counselor probably has discharge goals in mind, at least generally, from the beginning.
I strongly encourage you to ask about it!
Dang right!
Heh heh, and correct me if I'm wrong, and, if we are truly professionals, we should be able to handle even the most bumptious of folks, now shouldn't we?
;)It's like a mechanic who knows his way around every inch of an engine, he'll know what to do, heh heh heh,.
Yes, just like some relationships outside of our work are more difficult than others.
But, I would not say that the "client is more difficult," rather the dynamic between myself and the client, which constitutes a relationship, might feel more difficult.
And that's okay (sometimes things that feel like the most challenging end up with profound shifts and outcomes) It is often helpful to understand difficulties that exist, because they can illuminate for a therapist something with which a client might be struggling, and when it takes place in the therapy space, it can be experienced and then worked through.
It's hard to necessarily say what some difficulties are that a counselor might encounter, but I would say that not showing up, like in any relationship, is one of the hardest things for me.
And not just physically not showing up (though that is certainly frustrating), but not being open to the work is a form of not showing up.
While not every client is as "motivated to change," it's helpful to my therapist-client relationships that the client try.
It might be hard for them, but the effort even to say "this is tough for me" can go a long way in these kinds of relationships.
Each counselor will have their own list of "difficulties" in doing therapy work with a client.
Even if clinically trained similarly, since counselors are human then their response to your question will reflect their unique differences as humans.
On my list is when the emotional pain I feel for someone describing some type of injustice or unfair treatment by another, feels very deep.
Sometimes I feel like avoiding the pain I feel by asking questions which will steer the conversation away from the painful areas the client talks about.
What in fact is necessary to clear out their pain, is to step further into so as to realize their emotional pain isn't greater than who they are.
Yes, Counseling provides an area for people to speak to an unbiased professional about their concerns to address their unique needs.
While length of time varies, counseling is a process and can be done from as little as one session to multiple sessions.
Counseling provide a safe, non-judgmental, empathetic atmosphere from a professional helper provide the service.
Hi!
Great question.
I believe counseling does help people!
Of course, I am a therapist, so I would think that!
Seriously - I think therapy and counseling allow us to understand ourselves, our motivations and the things that bring us happiness and discontent.
Therapy can create opportunities to try new skills and enhance positive attributes that are already present in someone.
I like to think of therapy as an unbiased "aerial view" of our lives.
Someone outside can often help us notice things we might otherwise miss.
Hope this helps!
Counseling provides a safe environment for people to explore the beliefs about the challenges in life.
The various types(modalities/techniques) of counseling serve as guides for specific individual's personal journeys.
Yes, counseling helps a lot of people, especially when there is a good rapport between the counselor and their client.
Knowing your counselor is someone who is really on your side and wants to see you grow past your difficulties into a healthy, happy, successful life is more important than what kind of counseling method they use.
If you are looking for a counselor, take your time and be sure you feel heard and respected as well as challenged to grow.
Counseling definitely helps people!
I have seen so many positive changes from those willing to engage in the counseling process.
Having a safe place to openly share concerns with an objective listener really is therapeutic and can make a huge difference in your life.
Many times people don't feel heard or validated by people in their lives, counseling call help validate your feelings and help you become more self-aware.
You can learn new skills to better manage your life as well.
I find the people who get the most out of it are the ones most willing to make changes.
Hi there!
Thank you for your question.
It's a great question and one that many people want to know the answer to.
The short answer is, YES!
Counseling can be very helpful to people struggling with many different things.
There has been a lot of research conducted to prove that counseling is an effective way to help people with mental health concerns, life stressors, and many other issues.
In addition, there are many people who would tell you that counseling made a positive, profound impact on their lives.
Indeed, some would tell you that counseling saved their lives.
Now, not everyone would tell you that counseling helped.
But when you think about it, there are many medical treatments for a variety of healthcare issues that also do not help everyone.
So, is counseling guaranteed?
No.
But, it is something that is worth trying if someone is suffering or is just wanting some perspective or support.
Also, there is many different types of counseling.
Different counselors have different styles and have different training for various issues.
This means that you are likely to find someone who has a good style and expertise in an area that you want to work on.
If you don't know where to go, I suggest contacting your state's counseling association.
They can help.
I think the real question that most people have is, how?
How does it help?
That question is a bit more complicated, because there are many different models of counseling/therapy that work in different ways.
What I can tell you is that, regardless of the model of counseling, the relationship between counselor and client is the most important factor.
I don't mean that the relationship has to be ooowy goowy, but it does have to be one where there is trust and openness.
A counselor will spend time to make sure that you are working together as a team toward a common goal.
If you go to counseling and you don't feel this is the case, tell your counselor.
An ethical counselor will welcome your feedback.
I hope this is helpful, please ask more questions!
I hope some colleagues add some other thoughts, too.
Be well,Robin J.
Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC.
Counselling offers a number of ways to help one to improve their situation.
For some, this process can take a very long, winding path of self-discovery, while, for others, they are seeking a purposeful, solution-based way to approach and manage a specific problem.
It's important to remember that there are different styles of therapy, some of which will work great with some, but poorly with others, specifically to help those to decide how they wish to move forward.
I often recommend speaking with a number of therapists before beginning treatment to find out more about how they practice, in order to make sure their style aligns with your goals.
On a more specific note, there is myriad research out in the world that indicates both counselling and medication can have an affect on changing our moods and behaviours.
However, medication is not an effective way of treating the problem, as it treats the symptoms of that problem (increased anxiety, lowered mood) and research has shown that the most effective route for better mental health care comes from a combination of counselling and medication.
There are multiple ways that counseling helps people.
The most basic is that it gives you someone to talk to about and through what you are facing.
It is better than a friend because this is a space for your stuff and you get to focus on what you need and don't have to worry about the other side.
This is also a place where you do not have to worry about how else the other person is involved in the situation.
Beyond this basic level, a counselor will have expertise they can bring in terms of how people, including you, can effectively deal with this kind of situation.
The counselor may also be aware of connections that you would not otherwise see.
A good counselor will also recognize if and when you need other help or support in the situation.
Why wouldn't you benefit from having someone walk with you in your journey to peace and wholeness.
A counselor can do a few things that can be helpful:1) Give you a space where you can explore what's in your head without worrying about being judged or punished.
2) Help you better understand yourself, your choices, your motivations.
3) Give you tools and information you can use to help create change in your life.
Ultimately, though, it's up to the client to take action, because action is what creates change.
So, a counselor can't create change, but they can facilitate and support it.
No, not really;And it's impossible for it to, anyway;And, this is isn't some sort of "you did it all yourself" kind of blather;Because:1) In most outcomes, if a man or woman simply does nothing and waits, most of the time, they get better, (there are reasons to that);2) In most therapy sessions, approximately 92% (give or take, per study) of all outcomes--be they positive or negative--occur due to factors SOLELY WITHIN the man or woman seeking therapy to begin with;3) The word "THERAPY" does not imply cure, but implies treatment (suppression);4) Truly, a proper "therapist" will be able to spot the problem quickly, recommended proper protocols quickly, and coach to completion.
5) Even if we PRESUME generosity, the "therapist" really doesn't matter much (maybe 8%); it really all is in you,Be well, man,.
You are asking a room full of counselors, and so I am going to guess that we may be a bit biased.
My answer is this: sometimes.
Many people benefit from counseling and when counseling works those benefits can show up through positive improvements in your moods, making more choices that align with your values, working through stuff, and a general improved sense of self.
Sometimes, for a variety of reasons, a counselor, the approach they are using and the person do not match up and when that happens sometimes counseling does not help.
It is very important to find the right counselor for you.
Ideally this should be someone you feel a level of trust and connection with who is also using a style that you feel confident in.
Research has shown that these aspects (what is called the 'therapeutic alliance') along with shared goals between the client and counselor give counseling the best chance at being effective.
Counseling is a collaborative process which involves the development of a confidential, unique, therapeutic, helping relationship.
This relationship is unlike any other as the counselor will act as a facilitator in helping you better understand yourself, the world around you, your feelings, and your behaviors.
As is the case with most things in life, there are both benefits and risks while participating in counseling.
Counseling may improve your ability to relate with others, provide a clearer understanding of yourself, your values, and your goals, and it often helps relieve stress immediately.
Along with these benefits, counseling will also involve discussing the unpleasant parts of your life, and you may experience uncomfortable feelings during these moments.
But remember that using the awareness of one's pain can aid the healing process and result in better relationships with yourself and others.
Yes, counseling can help people.
How this happens is bc the counselor can guide the person or couple into deeper areas of their thoughts and emotions than the person or partners would typically avoid or not even realize they are avoiding.
Also, a counseling session offers emotional safety because the therapist will intervene with thoughtful questions if someone's strong emotions overwhelm them.
This is different than in everyday circumstances.
When someone feels overwhelmed by their own or someone else's feelings, there is no one who asks reflective questions.
Last, people get better in therapy because often therapy is the first time the person has a chance to trust someone with their confidential information and know this information will always be protected.
Experts have defined counseling as a healing relationship that helps patients by providing a space to vent, process and receive unconditional support.
Many of my clients have expressed that they are able to find their own answers during the session, because they have the right person listening to them.
Some thought they were safe sharing their concerns with friends or relatives who are good listeners, but later they felt ashamed or guilty about what they shared.
So why people should share private issues with a Counselor (a stranger)?
Confidentiality is the key word.
A good counseling relationship should provide a space where people are able to share their deepest thoughts and feelings, allowing themselves to be vulnerable and explore those emotions that are difficult to share without implications.
Beyond the ability to provide a safe place, counselors are trained to identify symptoms and behavioral patterns, and can provide insight on how develop coping mechanisms to improve their life.
I am a License Professional Counselor working on a private practice in Puerto Rico: Latitude Counseling, and also I'm licensed in Texas, where I provide theletherapy services.
I love this question!
Some people shy away from counseling because they think since they already talk about how they feel to their relatives or friends they shouldn't need a counselor.
However, if you are having a difficult time, counseling can be beneficial in helping you move forward and get your life back on track.
Counseling is not like the kind of talking we do to people we know.
For one, your counselor does not have a history with you and has no expectations of how you will act and what you will do.
In that way, counselors come to a session without judgement and expectation.
This gives you the platform to truly explore your thoughts and feelings.
A counselor can also help you understand your motivation and help you integrate your past experiences and recommend coping skills that can help you if you are feeling overwhelmed by your emotions.
Over time, as you work with a counselor you will get feedback and also be able to share new insights.
The work you do is based on you and where you are at.
Oftentimes, when we talk to friends they bring their own agenda to a conversation, and while they mean well they may offer solutions that work for them and not you.
A counselor will help you uncover the solutions that work best for you and help you find the motivation to follow through with your plan.
Best of luck to you!
Hello. Yes, counseling can be beneficial to many people.
One of the effective components to effective therapy, is when the client becomes willing to participate in the counseling.
I don't mean just show up and listen to the counselor for 45-50 minutes, but also that the client themselves opens up and shares with the counselor the issues that brought them to counseling in the first place.
This requires you to be vulnerable, capable of moving past your protective measures of showing the best of yourself, and allowing the counselor to see the sides of you that likely are not as favorable.
Therapy works when you and the counselor engage openly, honestly, and with mutual trust that both of you will work for common goals - your improvement of self.
It does take time, and there are no quick fixes (usually), so be prepared to invest in yourself and explore the dark places.
You'll thank yourself later, knowing that you are more connected to yourself and might even feel more whole after the process.
Be well.
"I believe that counseling (and finding a GOOD therapist) will be of significant help when the individual seeking therapy desires change, improvement, and overall growth.
Most counseling involves homework and a level of commitment outside of session that also contributes to resolution of problems and an ability to cope with stresses in a productive way.
Here are some of the key ways that therapy can help.
Helps to define the problem and gain a clearer understanding of where it originates.
Many people seek counseling because of symptoms they are experiencing.
These can include feeling sad, increased sleeping, substance use, panic attacks, self-harm, isolating one's self, academic decline Often times, people are not aware of what is causing these symptoms.
Having a therapist to help guide and explore why the symptoms are occurring and where they come from will give individuals increased insight and awareness into their problems.
Allows for a safe outlet to vent.
Not everyone likes to share their problems with close friends or family members.
Maybe they don't want others to know of their flaws.
Maybe they don't want to burden others with their problems.
Or maybe they just are not comfortable talking about themselves.
And in some situations people do not have the option of talking with someone they know because they have no friends or family.
While talking with those we know can help bring some relief.
It is also nice to talk with someone like a therapist who is objective and emotionally removed from given situations.
Counseling gives a safe outlet in which one can express their personal feelings and thoughts without feeling judged.
Counselors can offer various problem solving solutions.
A good therapist usually will not directly point their client in the direction they need to go.
Counseling is about growth and teaching the client to identify triggers and use effective coping strategies that will bring about emotional and psychological relief.
Counselors will help clients to explore the various options available in given situation, based on the client's needs, wants, and values and will help them to choose the option that best fits with their desired outcome.
Gives one the tools needed to cope with current and future problems.
Many individuals that seek therapy have never learned good coping strategies.
Perhaps they did not have parents or caretakers to.
model productive ways to cope or maybe the symptoms they are suffering from are overbearing and take away the energy needed to cope.
Different diagnoses require different tools; however some are beneficial for any problem and any individual.
These include but are not limited to relaxation techniques, breathing exercises, development of healthy routines, using mindfulness, improving communication skills, and recognizing and changing maladaptive thought patterns.
A good counselor will teach clients how to use these tools, will often practice them during session, and will assign homework for further practice and mastery of the skills.
Counseling allows us to have a sacred space, a space that is set apart from the outside world, it is a space of non-judgement and exploration.
Being that the universe is not made for us and that the the world tends to be a fairly untamed place at times, this sacred space allows us to explore ourselves.
It allows for greater reflection upon our attitudes, our behaviors and our feelings.
Imagine if you will a small goldfish swimming around the usual fish tank, although I dont attest to know what a goldfish thinks, I would imagine he does not see the world outside of him, he only sees the small fishbowl, oblivious to the outside world, when one comes into the counseling room, one is trying to gain insight that was not previously there.
Remember the observer affect, one cannot truly act objectively with the world, we are in a dynamic relationship with life, it reacts to us and we to it, the time in the counseling room allows us to gain an understanding that is beyond the normal limits, allowing us to see what was before hidden, often times in plain sight.
Counseling can go a long way in improving your mental health.
Counseling helps you to get new perspective on your life and problems.
Talking about your problems with a counselor gives them substances and something to get a handle on.
Talking about your problems gives you a chance look at your situation from a new angle to help solve your problems.
The counselor is a neutral listener that can help give direction and answers to your needs.
Counseling can help you solve your problems but also can set up a plan for the future.
Counseling can help you to deal with things before they get out of hand.
Give counseling a try.
A lot of things affect how helpful counseling is for each person, including at least these things, but often many others:The therapeutic alliance (this refers to the bond, connection, or trust between the client and the counselor).
What the person is coming in to work on, how motivated the person is to work on, what it is they would like to change.
Some people also ask how counseling is different from friendship.
There is a similarity in the sense that hopefully both counselors and friends will listen to what you are experiencing, but that is really the end of the similarities.
Some differences are: Counselors are specifically trained to phrase questions or statements in ways that help you to gain more awareness of one could be contributing to what it is that you are trying to change, both within yourself, and possibly with people around youCounselors have experience in using lots of different types of techniques (for example, focusing on finding solutions, looking at how the present situation could relate to your past, using role-plays or examples in session to help you learn new skills or ways of looking at situations, and probably hundreds of other things)Counselors are taught to look at what you are experiencing and ask questions about other related ideas that you may not have connected to what you are experiencingThere is a treatment plan in place (usually after the first, second, or third session) so both you and the counselor have an idea of where you would like to go with counseling (what you are hoping to change or learn) and a general idea of a plan for getting to your goalsIn general, I would say the following:Yes, counseling can help people who want something to be different in their livesCounseling is most helpful when the connection between the counselor and the client is strong enough that some trust forms (in other words, not every counselor or technique is helpful for every person)A lot of counselors will talk to you on the phone for a few minutes prior to you coming in for your first appointment to answer any general questions that you may haveIf you are working with a counselor and you feel as though you are not "clicking" or connecting with one another, give it three or four sessions before you change.
Trust is not happening in one hour for most of peopleIf you are working with a counselor and you would like to be getting more or something different out of it, tell the counselor about that because typically modalities can be changed.
Hello. First, I am so sorry you are experiencing these feelings.
They can be intense, I will do my best to offer some suggestions or thoughts that I hope will be helpful to you.
There could be a number of things occurring.
Therapy is a delicate, private decision and I would first like to commend you for the fact that you are not giving up, that you are working to figure this out, and make this work, it sounds like you are engaged and motivated to receive support from a professional,your continued dedication and motivation will take you far.
I would first start by asking if you have discussed this with your therapist, if you feel comfortable enough telling your therapist what is going on, maybe inform the therapist that that you feel nervous and shaky.
I am a firm believer in open communication between the client and therapist as this builds a healthy therapeutic relationship that yields positive outcomes, if this can be obtained and well received.
This isYOUR time for healing and therapy should be a safe, supportive environment to not only process but to seek support and guidance from a professional who can help you move past the barriers.
If you feel you are comfortable and able to speak to your therapist, that would be my first suggestion, is to tell he or she how you are feeling.
If they know then they can help determine the potential cause and allow you to process and move forward.
If this is left un resolved it will be hard for you to move forward.
If you are not comfortable discussing this with your therapist, this may be something to take into consideration and worthy of thinking about: why you are not comfortable speaking to the therapist.
I understand this is difficult.
If I may offer one more suggestion, breathing exercises are very beneficial.
Remind yourself what you are working to achieve, close your eyes in a safe moment and breathe in and out slowly, in slowly through your nose and out through your mouth with pursed lips.
Breathe in for approximately 5-10 seconds, then let it out slowly.
Be sure and do this when you are in private, and feel safe environment.
When you begin, I suggest putting your hand on your stomach, over your belly button to feel yourself actually taking in those deep breaths.
I know it may sound kind of silly but they really work and areincredibly helpful.
We often forget to breathe, especially when we are feeling anxious.
You are supported here and try taking yourself through the above thought process and breathing and practice the breathing several times a day.
I hope this shaky and uneasy feeling eases.
Wishing you the very best!
It can be uncomfortable talking to someone about your life in the great detail that is normally necessary for counseling to be beneficial.
Since you're already going to counseling, congratulations on taking that big, first, stress-inducing step.
Hopefully by now you are starting to feel a little more comfortable with your therapist.
It can be helpful to address this big "elephant in the room" and talk to your therapist about this.
I do my best to help people feel comfortable when they come to counseling, but regardless of how hard we try, sometimes it is just a little hard to get accustomed to.
The good news is, the more you keep at it, the more "normal" it will become.
If you have only been to a couple of sessions, it makes sense that you might still feel apprehensive at first.
Therapy is hard work!
You may be talking about some things that you never talked to anyone about before.
Opening up to stranger can be scary.
After you feel comfortable with your counselor, and trust has built up and you feel understood in session, you should feel more relaxed.
I would encourage you to talk to your counselor about feeling a little shaky.
Sharing what the process is like for you is important in your work.
If you still feel unsure about sharing after several sessions, it is important to take a look at that and try to understand where that may be coming from.
For example, are you and the therapist not a good fit?
But, again if you are just starting out in working together, feeling a little bit nervous makes perfect sense, and I encourage you to give it a bit more time and to talk to your therapist about how you are feeling.
Hi there,Thank you for your question.
It's absolutely ok to feel nervous going to therapy.
I have experienced anxiety going to see my own therapist.
There can be a few reasons why you might feel this way.
First, it is always unnerving to see a person who is a stranger and to share intimate things with that stranger.
You mentioned it has only been a couple of sessions.
Your anxiety might subside as you continue to see your therapist and grow more comfortable with him/her.
Another reason why you might feel particularly nervous is perhaps you are not comfortable sharing things.
As children, we might have bad experiences opening up to others.
Someone might bully or ridicule us, and that experience can stay with us for a long time, making it extra scary to share our intimate feelings and thoughts with others.
If this the case, as you continue with your sessions and have positive interactions with your therapists, this anxiety will subside with time and you will re-learn that it is safe to share.
And the last thought why you might feel the shakes is perhaps you know that you need to talk about some past experiences or memories that are uncomfortable and difficult.
Regardless of the reason, it might help you to bring up your nervousness in your session and share how you feel with your therapist.
Having an open dialogue about your anxiety with your therapist can help you resolve some of that anxiety and built greater trust with your therapist.
Thank you for your question.
It's completely normal and natural to feel nervous before a therapy session.
Many people report having felt this way.
I can't say enough regarding the amount of courage it takes to reach out and attend a therapy session.
For many people, it can take weeks, months, or even years of contemplating whether to see a therapist or not before actually contacting one and attending the first session.
It takes courage to want to work through any struggles you may be having or personal growth you aspire toward.
In your question, you mentioned that you've "gone several times and are still feeling nervous and shaky.
If you feel comfortable with your therapist and it's a good fit for you, I would suggest talking about this with your therapist.
You don't have to struggle each time you have your appointment.
Together, you and your therapist can work toward helping you have a different experience.
Sure, why not!
It's nerve-wracking to go to a man or woman you've never met before and who is a total stranger, that you are paying to take an interest in your life.
You're likely feeling an internal truth about the sessions, the man or woman with you, and the man or woman sitting across from you.
I'd listen to those feelings.
Wouldn't it not be best to go to those around you that do provide comfort and aid, first?
Wouldn't it be better to attend to those of faith around you who have love to offer, first?
Wouldn't it be better to go to your family and loved ones, first?
Might try that; see if your nervousness evaporates,.
What you are experiencing is extremely normal.
Opening up to someone you don't know from a can of paint can elicit some uncomfortable feelings and make you feel shaky.
With time and building trust with your therapist, you will eventually start feeling less apprehensive before sessions.
Consider bringing this up to your therapist as you both can process this experience together and figure out ways of coping with this anxiety before you come into the therapy room.
It's very normal to be nervous going into therapy.
You are being vulnerable and honest, which is always scary, no matter how many times you do it.
The best part about therapy is that the more you go, the more confident you are in your ability to work through those difficult feelings, and while you still may sometimes get nervous, you will have confidence too!
It depends on your definition of "normal"!
I would say that the average client I see feels some level of nervous energy when they come into their sessions, and especially at the beginning.
I think that with clients who I work with that have difficult times in relationships, maybe being able to trust people is tougher for them given their life experiences, the expectation would be that they have a harder time moving through those nerves and feeling more at peace in sessions.
In my opinion, a competent therapist could help you explore where these nerves are actually coming from (talking about yourself, relating to another, something else) I encourage all of my clients to bring up whatever emotions are coming up for them in the moment, as it's helpful to the client to recognize the "present moment" emotion and then being able to process, learn from, and move through to a more peaceful place, if that is what is being sought.
Therapy can feel very weird to begin with - think about it, how often do we go and tell a relative stranger our deepest, darkest thoughts in the rest of our life?
So I think its reasonable to expect a certain level of nerves as you get used to your therapist and to the whole process of talking about yourself and vulnerable topics.
That said, its definitely worth bringing to the attention of your therapist (if you haven't already) to see if there is anything that they can do, or that the two of you can explore together, that might make the process feel less intimidating to you.
It takes a lot of courage to go to therapy.
I have gone myself as a Counselor and know what that feeling is like.
This is normal but hopefully you have become more comfortable with your therapist.
This might be something to bring up to your Therapist and openly discuss (scary to do but its ok) this may even relieve some of your anxiety.
If it continues, you may want to consider trying another therapist as this one may not be the best fit for you.
Therapy does not work overnight, oftentimes it is a lifelong struggle, the therapists job is not to "cure" you or to remove something but rather to make you strong enough to live your life with your own peculiarities and struggles, remember we are human and constantly fallible.
Another important thing to note is that although you go to therapy, that is just a room, most of the magic and work takes place in your real life outside of that room.
Yes, feeling nervous for the first few or several sessions of therapy, is completely normal.
Therapy is an unusual way to have a conversation with someone.
The person is an expert in recognizing and understanding dynamics of human interactions.
For some people the fear is that the therapist knows more about you than you do yourself.
In general terms hopefully your therapist has worked with many other people who've faced problems similar to yours.
In this sense the therapist has a general idea of the basic dynamics you most likely are handling.
No therapist could possibly know your particular details and your particular areas of upset or in what ways you feel unsure of yourself.
Once you start to trust both your own right to tell your particular story and start to also feel that your therapist is listening attentively and cares what you tell the person, your nervousness will start to disappear all on its own.
Good luck in getting the most from your therapy sessions!
It is absolutely normal to be nervous about therapy.
Many people take years to make the decision to start counseling and although it is a safe place to explore feelings, it may be the first time you are facing certain issues.
It takes courage to face issues head on.
Being nervous is part of the process.
The fact that you are continuing to go to therapy sessions despite feeling nervous demonstrates your strength.
Keep it up!
Yes, it is completely normal to feel anxious about therapy.
Therapy often explores topics and feelings that are uncomfortable.
The ultimate goal of therapy is to feel better but the process itself can be uncomfortable.
For some people it's absolutely normal to feel nervous about coming to therapy.
It's sometimes hard to share our emotions and feelings with someone --- no matter how warm and caring the therapist is.
 Are you comfortable with your therapist?
Is it a good relational fit?
 Maybe this is a good thing to discuss with your specific therapist at the beginning of your next session --- maybe they can help you find some strategies or tools to make it easier?
Well, it's generally okay to feel anxious or nervous about going into therapy, particularly in the beginning because the process of being open about what you are going through, much less to someone who you don't know well, can be anxiety-producing.
It's also common to feel anxious when you are discussing something that is important, difficult to discuss, or you are making changes that are very difficult for you.
The most important thing I can tell you, though, is to discuss with your therapist this idea that you feel nervous and shaky.
Some anxiety can actually help to motivate or lead you toward change.
There are also level of anxiety that can be counterproductive, so it's a good thing to discuss.
Personally, I can tell you that I would want my clients to tell me about anxiety they feel 100% of the time.
That opens the dialog to discuss whether it is the level of anxiety that they want to sit with and learn about in discovering more about themselves and their experiences and/or whether they would like to do something to lessen the feeling of anxiety.
Thanks for writing here.
If it caused anxiety for you to do so, I hope that feeling is diminishing for you, at least related to writing here.
Certainly.
of I would love to know a little bit more about what's going on in your life but I will attempt an answer.
Yes, you could still be shaky and nervous going to therapy.
This therapy thing your doing is sometimes scary.
First, because your opening up things that you might have never wanted to.
Second, your still building a relationship with this therapist person.
You may never get over that.
The therapist really can't be your "friend".
They are there to push the buttons that you might not want pushed and help you heal.
That in itself is scary and can make you anxious.
Third, you really never know where this therapy thing will go.
Yes, there are goals.
But sometimes side roads need to be taken and sometimes that is scary.
Know this you are in the right place.
You are taking steps to change.
It is absolutely a typical response.
Many of my clients are nervous the first couple of times we meet.
This is essentially a stranger with whom you are sharing your feelings.
It's normal to feel a little anxiety--after all it's an important encounter for you.
My suggestion is to discuss this with your therapist, let him/her know how you're feeling, especially if you feel as though your level of anxiety is impacting the quality and benefit of your sessions.
You might try some relaxation techniques prior to starting the session, deep breathing, progressive relaxation, core muscle dis-engagement--If you're not familiar with these techniques ask your therapist or write back.
Hello there. You ask about being nervous and shaky walking in to your therapy session and want to know if its normal?
I realize there a few ways to look at this.
I presume you weren'tanticipating feeling this way; and probably hoped to feel the opposite.
Well, my initial response is yes, sure, it can be within reason to feel this way.
Have you been in therapy before?
Is this somewhat new?
That could be part of the reason.
But either way; new or not, I think when are entering into a meeting that holds potential evaluation of deep things about you and your heart and soul, it can cause anyone to tremble.
The soul can be anticipating some things could be shaken up here, and it can feel scary to look at these things and then change.
Looking deep at our life can feel daunting and scary; so your response just might be regards to potential growth trying to happen.
OR, is there something about the therapist you don't feel confident about?
This too might be in play as a reason for your feelings, Maybe you lack confidence in that therapist ?
Have you let your therapist know how you feel?
That would be good to explore,I would like to encourage you to look at these ideas.
Hope it helps.
"Normal" can be an insidious word to use because it can undermine your sense of worth.
It implies there's one particular way you should be behaving and can leave you feeling crappy and "abnormal" if you're not behaving according to that prescribed standard.
Instead, what I'd recommend is to pay attention to your emotional experiences when you're attending therapy.
Explore your feelings and thoughts without judgement and try to reflect and understand what's going on that's causing you anxiety.
Once you figure out the underlying meaning of the anxiety, you can figure out a way to handle it and action steps to take to diminish it.
Everyone has different experiences going to therapy.
Being nervous can be a typical emotion one might feel.
Emotions are our body's way of telling us important information about ourselves.
I would suggest talking openly in your sessions about this.
That way you can process your thoughts and feelings with the guidance of your counselor.
There are probably underlining emotions (fears or insecurities) that are being stirred up during your therapy sessions.
Your counselor might suggest individual counseling depending on what you learn about your anxiety.
In individual therapy you would have time to deal with your own stressors.
As you address your issues, then you will have tools and skills that will be useful in addressing the couple relationship.
I would be more concerned with how is this being addressed in therapy.
Therapy can be a rewarding process, however often times we do not pay much attention to the messages being sent to our bodies.
I believe in somatic therapy which deals with our mind & body connection.
I would think it may not be a question of normal or abnormal however if it is impacting you then you must pay attention to that.
It would be helpful to explore the feelings you're having with your therapist.
It may be something that needs addressing to help alleviate those feelings or have a better understanding of why they are showing up when it is time for therapy.
It is totally normal - you have a lot riding on this and you're invested!
Think about why you feel so shaky - is it something about the therapist or their style?
If so, it would be a good idea to talk with them about it so you feel more at ease.
In any case bringing up your feelings about therapy intherapy is totally appropriate and even necessary.
Good luck!
Hello,There are many ways to approach a counselor and starting the process, however they all start with picking up the phone.
It's most definitely an uncomfortable feeling, but once that first step is taken it is often met with a wave of relief.
My recommendation is always to call and speak with a therapist over the phone before scheduling an appointment.
Listening to how they converse, use their tone and inflection, may give you a brief insight to how they will respond to you and increase your comfort right away.
You may also discover, rather quickly, that this therapist is not the right match for you.
Regardless of how you go about it, I like to remind all people who call, email, text or walk-in, therapists are a bit like pizzas - if you don't like the toppings, send it back!
There are hundreds of therapists offering all kinds of styles of therapy - take the time to pick one that suits you.
Most counselors are very approachable and many offer a 15 minute chat by phone to allow you to talk about your issue, and to get a feel for the counselor.
If you like what you hear by phone, the next step is to set up a face-to-face meeting.
Studies show that the most important element in effective therapy is that you feel a connection with your counselor.
Trust your instincts and if you don't feel comfortable, let him or her know that you don't think it's a good fit.
Many counselors list on websites like Psychology Today and Good Therapy.
Visit these websites to learn more about therapists in your area.
Hi!
Great question!
My suggestion would be to google therapists in your area.
One great website is called Psychology Today, which is a National site.
You can search for therapists in your zip code and search more specifically for the issue you are seeking support about.
It's a great way to find out if they therapist has a speciality, accepts insurance and whether they offer a free phone consultation.
I would then make a list of the ones that may be a good fit and then give them a call!
Hope this helps.
Remember you get to ask anything you need to, to determine if someone is a good fit.
Don't be afraid to ask anything!
Best of luck!
Hello. Counseling often begins way before the client ever actually calls the local therapist.
There is often a tipping point in the internal struggle that the client experiences, where they can no longer deal with the issues on their own and thus giving the motivation to seek external help.
That said, clients usually go seeking therapists based on what their insurance will cover, or what is likely to be more and more the case in the near future,what they are able to pay for out of pocket.
That first phone call to a prospective counselor can often feel like torture, but it doesn't have to stay that way.
Counselors are well trained to acknowledge the inherent goodness of all clients, and should be able to see and hear the sense of fear in the client of being judged or put down in some way.
The counselor you select should be compassionate, caring, able to join with you on your journey to resolving your issues or concerns, and to do so without negative judgment of you as a person of worth.
Once you have found a counselor you want to work with, you would then schedule an appointment to meet.
That first session is often very low key.
There might be some forms for you to complete, which will help the counselor address your concerns and learn a bit more about you.
The counselor will typically provide you with what we generally call in the profession a professional disclosure or practice statement.
This document (which may be several pages long) usually outlines the counselor's credentials; practice rules; forms of payment; office hours; emergency contact details; and confidentiality guidelines under state and federal law, among other details.
All of this benefits you as the client, so that you are well informed and can focus your attention on why you are meeting with the counselor.
In the first session, it is absolutely okay to be nervous.
Here's a really big secret (which is important to keep in mind as counseling begins): Counselors are often as nervous (if not more) to meet a new client, as the client is to meet their new counselor.
It's true.
We as professionals are trying to put our best foot forward to impress you with our awesome counseling skills.
While simultaneously hiding all the troubling unwanted issues that we ourselves have in our life too, and being worried that we might not know if we can help the client sitting in front of us.
What makes it even more challenging, is that counselors are often put on a giant pedestal of perfection by clients (all while we as counselors tend to look at it like we're standing on a three legged stool).
This is normal for us when seen from the eyes of the client.
Counselors and clients are both human, and we both make mistakes.
Coming from that place of understanding, might bring a sense of ease to both the client and the therapist as they seek to work together.
Part of this perception of perfection held by clients toward counselors, is that the skills of the counselor might look like they have all the answers.
We honestly do not, plain and simple.
Counselors come from life experiences (where they might be farther down on life's road than you); they hold completion of various forms of training; and have advanced education.
Yet we are in the end, imperfect beings struggling to help imperfect people.
This makes it easier to be compassionate to new clients walking through our door with the hope that we will receive that same compassion in return.
Very often, we can find ourselves reflected in our clients' lives with their struggles and can become more effective at helping if we have resolved similar issues in our own life.
So as you begin to seek out a therapist, try looking for one who is aware of their own life issues and is actively working on them too.
Someone who can meet you where you are at emotionally and can understand your sense of your struggle that you are facing at the present moment.
That counselor may be a good example for you as you enter into therapy and build your own strength, and thus begin dealing with the issues more effectively you bring up in therapy.
Usually people call me by phone, they introduce themselves, we chat for a bit, then we schedule a time for their appointment.
Honestly, don't :(Talk with your close friends, first (y'know, the ones you actually can tell sh*t to, not the more surface level ones, god-bless-their-souls,Be with your family; should you have a fine relationship with them, tell them and utilize them; they gave you life and that bond (especially between a mother and son) is unbreakable.
Go with your faith; as often as various faiths have been blasted and lambasted around the world, understand that they're ultimately trying to get you closer to God.
And, ain't that a big thing.
Go with those around you FIRST that actually MIGHT GIVE A CR*P about you, FIRST, before going to a total stranger you've never met before, that is just as damaged, stupid, and imperfect as we all are.
Great question!
You can find a counselor by doing an internet search or by asking your doctor for a referral.
Once you have the name and contact information for a therapist you want to meet with, give them a call.
Some therapists will provide a free 15-20 minute phone consultation.
This is a good chance for you to get some questions asked.
Be sure to ask about their fee, if you want to use your insurance ask them if they take your insurance.
Next you will want to ask about availability to make sure they have open times that fit in your schedule.
Once you make the appointment, in the first session you have with the therapist, the therapist will ask a lot of questions about what brought you into therapy and what you hope to accomplish in therapy.
I usually use the last 10 minutes of that first session talking with clients about how I might be able to help them with their concern and I gather feedback from them.
Here is a link to an article about how to speak with your therapist in those first couple of sessions.
Great question.
Too often people search for the help they need via a phone book or a basic internet search.
When looking for a new person to add to your team, whether it be a Counselor, Plumber, or Mechanic, it is important to know as much as you reasonably can about the person.
I generally take the following steps: 1) Know what is important to me in finding help.
2) Ask for referrals from my trusted friends, family, and colleagues.
3) Search for online reputation (Better Business Bureau, Yelp, etc).
The absence of an online reputation is not necessarily a bar to consideration.
However, a predominantly negative review may warrant further research.
4) Finally call the Counselor and ask a few questions.
Let the Counselor know what you are looking for.
Trust your gut.
For example, if you feel rushed or do not receive thorough answer, move on to the next.
Taking the time to defining and conveying your requirements about what you are looking for in counseling can save you a lot of work down the road.
I'd recommend looking on psychologtoday.
com, reading the bio's of potential therapists who you think you would relate best with, then contact them through e-mail or on the phone.
Hi,Reaching out on this site was a great first step!
To start counseling, I would recommend looking up counselors and thinking about what sort of counselor would be a good fit.
See if they have areas of focus that line up with your goals, and never be afraid to call and set up a consultation.
Usually these are free of charge and can help you make your decision.
I have found that if you go to my website and fill out the form, I can usually get back to you within 24 hours.
In my most efficient instances, I've been able to set-up a consultation within a couple of days, which is just 15 minutes by phone, to chat a little about what you might want to work on, how I may or may not be a good fit Then from there, if you want to meet in person we can set up an initial session.
I will usually be able to let you know what kinds of ongoing times for counseling that I have available over the phone.
Scheduling is a big barrier to finding a therapist, especially in New York, when schedules seem pretty busy all around.
I've heard a lot of statistics about how prospective clients in therapy will often wait for months before reaching out, which is why I think that email is great.
Cold-calling can cause an unnecessary amount of anxiety (also, who will hear me on the phone) whereas email is relatively easy to begin a conversation, from what I've found.
I tend to recommend clients give a new therapist a couple of sessions to get a feel for fit.
But, if it's horrible after one session, and you feel awful when you leave, that's another story.
I might want to explore with you what felt so awful, but if you don't want to come back, that is well within your right.
Also, keep in mind that we want to help.
So, please don't feel like we are judging you for seeking out help!
You are strong for doing so.
Far too often I hear about it as a weakness, and that's just BS.
You can search by location and identify therapists who have expertise in your area of concern.
Once you find a few people that fit your criteria, read about them on Psychology today as well as check out their website if they have one.
Next, either call or email them to set up a time to talk for a few minutes.
When you speak with them, you want to know a few things: do they have a decent amount of experience in your area of concern?
Are their fees, insurance coverage and scheduling availability a good fit for you?
Most importantly, see if you feel comfortable when you speak to them on the phone!
If this person is a good match in these areas, schedule an initial consultation so that you can see if you are also a good match in person.
Hello. Usually the person interested in therapy reaches out to the therapist, by telephone or email.
I like to respond with appreciation for their making contact and ask if they are available for a phone consultation in order to see how I may be able to help.
Once we are on the phone, I like to get a brief sense of what's happening in their life and the way in which I respond and the way we communicate will give each of us a sense of whether our dynamic is appealing enough to take the next step.
And the next step is making an appointment.
Also in the initial conversation, you can feel free to ask what their therapeutic modality is or give a brief scenario and ask how the therapist might respond to that situation.
I encourage you to be fearless in "interviewing" the therapist.
This is one of the most sacred connections of trust you could be about to forge, so if you don't feel comfortable, move on to the next therapist on your list.
If the connection feels good to you, then it's worth it to make the first appointment.
You will immediately know if you don't feel comfortable speaking with this person.
But if you DO feel comfortable, heard, validated even in that short conversation, I encourage you to make the appointment.
Once you're in the first session, you can continue to assess through how your feeling and responding, just how comfortable you are or are not.
Just keep listening to yourself every step of the way!
Great question.
The decision to pursue therapy can be a very difficult one and the fact that there seem to be so many profiles that you have to wade through can be particularly daunting.
Here's what I suggest to make the process a bit easier:1) Narrow down your preferred geographical area.
Are you in a rural, suburban, or urban environment?
If it's either of the latter two, you'll probably have a mental health professional close by.
Decide now if it's important to you that their office be within walking or short driving distance.
2) Decide if you need it to be covered by your insurance.
You'll have more options if you're willing to pay out of pocket and get reimbursed by your insurance, but more and more people are accepting insurance these days.
3) Find someone whose profile has the key words that you're looking for.
If you're struggling with traumatic flashbacks, make sure they have "trauma" or something along those lines in their profile.
4) Make sure they have a friendly and professional picture.
This is small, but this detail shows that they really care about how they present to the world.
5) Come up with a list of about 3 people and rank them from most appealing to least.
Set up an appointment with the person who seems like the best fit and give it a try for the first session.
You'll know by the end of it if it's a good fit.
It can be scary, but finding the perfect fit makes it so worth it.
Good luck!
First, identify the areas that you need help with.
What are the issues that are most troubling you?
Are these situations creating an impact on your daily routine?
Second, do some research as to the type of counselling service you are looking and that would best suit your needs.
Are you looking for individual sesssions, couples/family sessions And research potential therapists in your area that focus their counselling approach on your therapeutic needs.
Third, contact the therapist (most don't answer the phones, so leave a message or send an email).
Don't be affraid to ask questions.
You want to make sure that this professional is a good "match" for you and will work with you at working toward your therapeutic goals (the things you want to address/work on during the sessions).
Fourth, have the expectation that, depending on the issues, you will need multiple sessions/appointments with the therapist to really address the issues and work toward your therapeutic goals.
It takes strength and courage to reach out for help, but I know you can reach your goals.
It takes time, patience, and practice do really address your needs.
Good luck!
I always suggest that you find the right fit.
You have every right to interview the therapist and ask as many questions as you need.
It is our job as a therapist to explain our approach and philosophy.
This gives you a good overview of the therapist.
Just call and say that you would like to talk to the therapist.
Say your interested in the services but unclear about how the process works.
Starting the counseling process can be daunting but here are some ways that hopefully help make the process a little less overwhelming.
First,I'd start with finding a therapist through a therapist directory and searching for a therapist specifically in your area and with the expertise you're looking for.
There are many reputable therapist directories online that offer specific information and links to therapist websites to learn more about how they can help.
Next,I'd pick two or three of interest to contact directly.
Have a list of questions that are important to you that you can ask to determine whether a particular therapist is a good fit.
Many therapists offer a free phone consultation to allow you both to determine whether it is a good fit.
Then, after you schedule, the next step is to see what it's like being in session to determine if the fit is still a match.
The easiest way to start the counseling process is to do a little research online.
A quick search for the type of counseling you are looking for can be helpful.
There are lots of Counselors out there to choose from, so many times you will have to take it a few steps further than that.
Check out their website, social media, and any reviews (but remember, people are not always very nice).
If you plan on using insurance to pay for at least part of the services, look for one that is in your network.
You can find out if someone is in your network by looking for providers on your insurance's website.
If your coverage isn't that great and you know you're going to be paying for it all anyway (because you're an all-star and verified your coverage already with the insurance company), then you can really pick any Counselor you want, but working with one that is at least out of network will give you the benefit of having it applied to your deductible.
If you have any questions about that process or just want some help in getting your benefits from the insurance company once you've started counseling, Better is a good option.
Once you've found a Counselor you think is a good fit for you, normally the best step to take here is to call and schedule your very first appointment.
With many Counselors you can now send an email, but a phone call can normally tell you quite a bit about someone and their clinic.
Once you're all scheduled, they will either get you to do some paperwork before you come in, or many times they just let you fill it out once you get there.
From there, all you have to do is show up!
Approaching a counselor can seem intimidating at first, but most mental health professionals want to help you feel safe and heard.
You can often find counselors using search engines like CounselChat or Psychology Today.
These websites allow you to get to know therapists before you take the next step.
These days, counselors have websites where you can learn even more.
These websites usually have clear instructions for contact.
Typically, you can reach out via phone or email to request a consultation.
During a consultation call, you can ask the therapist questions about their credentials and areas of expertise.
If you feel like you connect, you can schedule a first session where you will tell them more about yourself and why you are seeking therapy.
The thing to remember is that therapists want you to reach out to them, and they are happy to be approached for support.
Good luck!
I think it is important that you are able to convey what you are looking for in a therapist even if that changes over time.
You need to look at it like you are interviewing the counselor and that they will be able to provide you with the therapy you need.
To many times we do not know and it ends up not being a good fit and then people are left with a bad experience and do not want to re-engage.
Remembering you are basically hiring someone to help you so I would treat it as such.
Do some research and be clear as to why you are coming to therapy and ask questions as how they will be able to help you.
The first thing to do is to reflect on what you want to seek counseling.
Search online and then set up a phone consultation.
A person can find out a lot about a counselor and the services that they offer over the phone.
After a consultation then set up an intake questions.
The overall goal is to make sure that you are comfortable with the counselor and the services they can offer.
Phone or email a counselor whose profile you've read and which feels right for you.
Ask to get a feel as to the way the person would handle your problem and work with you.
In my practice I offer a phone consult which generally continues for twenty minutes.
I feel it is only fair that a prospective patient has a feel for the service they are about to purchase before they can be expected to pay money for a service which may not be to their liking at all.
Oh, crying in therapy is very normal!
I have a stack of kleenex boxes in my office.
Cry away, therapist are very used to it.
First time being in therapy is scary, but you'll soon know if you are a good match.
People do cry in therapy sometimes, but it's not at all necessary to cry in order for most kinds of therapy to be helpful.
When you start counseling you don't yet know your counselor very well, so it's normal to keep your feelings in check until you feel comfortable and a bit more relaxed with your counselor and with the situation.
Sometimes, though, there are emotions that have been waiting and waiting to finally find someone who will listen with a kind ear.
If you feel safe right away in the situation with your counselor, you might just cry in spite of your fears about it.
Your therapist is used to people expressing how they feel and will keep strict confidentiality, so even though it's embarrassing, finally experiencing someone truly listening with empathy and kindness may just be worth it.
It's okay too to let your counselor know right at the beginning that you're kind of freaked out about getting too emotional in front of another person.
Crying is a natural process when you talk about upsetting things especially in therapy when you are opening up and being so vulnerable.
I suggest that you consider how you would feel/respond to someone that was confiding to you and they began to cry.
If you felt concerned, supportive and empathetic then you know exactly how us therapists feel when our clients are emotional in sessions.
I suggest that you think of times where you have cried and how you felt at that time in public and what would have helped to make you feel less uncomfortable during your tears.
I think of crying like any other natural reaction of our body such as sneezing, laughing, coughing.
You can't help but do those things and most people won't really judge negatively if you do it in public.
Similarly, crying is our body's reaction when we are emotional whether it is tears of joy, from a hilarious joke or from being upset.
If you are very uncomfortable about crying but willing to start therapy perhaps you can ask the therapist if you can turn your chair around if you begin crying.
This way you are not facing them and can self soothe without worrying about how you physically look at that time.
I wish you luck and you should be proud of yourself for starting therapy and I wish you a wonderful journey on this important path that you are embarking on.
It is not uncommon to be a bit nervous meeting your therapist (or another person) for the first time.
Your therapist understands that calling and getting an appointment was a big step for you and will do their best to put you at ease.
Providing a safe environment for our clients includes not judging them and being comfortable with the information and emotions that they share with us.
It is ok to cry and to trust that the therapist will honor this as part of your process.
Yes, if crying is how you are expressing an emotion, then not only would it be normal, but hopefully encouraged, because it's an important part of therapy to have a safe space to express your emotions.
We might encourage you to put words to the tears as well, to help you expand on your experience and begin to make more sense of it.
As a therapist, our job is help you open up and feel comfortable enough doing so.
I sincerely hope no therapist would ever shame you for whatever experience you are having in the room.
It is is absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
I can understand wanting to keep everything together and put your best foot forward with everyone you come into contact with, but it can be such a powerful experience to cry with somebody that can hear you and accept you.
It's so brave of you to go and share yourself with your counselor!
I hope you will keep being brave as you begin healing.
When talking about difficult issues, it is very normal to cry.
Crying is a natural way for us to cope with the sadness that we experience in life.
When confronting some of these things in a counseling session, tears just seem to come naturally.
Every Counselor should be well equipped to handle that level of emotion, and you would be far from the first to cry when talking with a Counselor.
Hi there!
As someone who has practiced as a clinical psychologist for 25 years, I would say that crying is NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT AT ALL!
Almost every single person I have worked with has cried at one point or another.
Starting therapy takes a lot of courage; when you work with a therapist, once you feel safe, you talk about a lot of very private and potentially emotional things that you may have never discussed with anyone before.
I have seen people cry with sadness, cry with relief at releasing painful things they have held onto for a long time, cry because they feel so relieved that they finally feel heard.
I myself have sometimes cried with clients because some things they talk about are so profoundly moving.
I can assure you that most, if not all, therapists expect clients to cry and there is nothing to be embarrassed about.
Crying can be very cathartic and can allow us to release a lot of painful feelings we have been stuffing down.
Crying is often a sign that you are really working things through and getting in touch with feelings that you need to get in touch with in order to heal.
So, to summarize, don't worry at all about crying!
It will probably feel uncomfortable at first, but I promise you, you will not be judged for crying in therapy.
And it will be less embarrassing once it happens a time or two and you are assured that your therapist will be there for you and won't judge you!
Good luck!
!
Lots of people do cry in session, but your therapist won't be uneasy with this.
Crying is a natural response and it also releases toxins, so some might say it's necessary!
Remember that you can be in charge of what you talk about in your session and if there's something that feels too uncomfortable, just say, "I'm not ready to talk about that.
Your counselor wants you to feel at ease and will probably not push you right away to a very uncomfortable place.
As you get to know your therapist, you will feel more relaxed and even not worry so much about how you appear to them.
It's normal to be anxious going into a new situation especially when you might not feel in control of uncomfortable emotions.
Don't give up, go and put your best effort in, hope that helps!
Many people cry during their therapy sessions.
Actually most people cry in their therapist's office.
I tell my clients that it's safe to cry in my office and crying isn't a sign of weakness.
It's a normal human response to pain.
People actually do more harm to themselves by trying not to cry than by crying.
Crying is very cleansing and an important part of the healing process for many people.
Please feel free to cry during therapy if you suddenly feel painful emotions arising when you describe some of your unsatisfying and unfulfilling relationships and situations.
Crying when realizing the emotional hurt and unfairness between you and someone, clears you for new ways of handling interactions.
As a therapist, I always have a box of tissues on the table next to the couch where people who utilize my therapy, sit.
I hope you will soon discover that once your tears unlock your awareness of harmful relationships in your life, you will quickly see the freedom to establish new and happier patterns of relating.
Have a good therapy!
Please do not worry about crying.
People cry, laugh, rage, rant, and talk during counseling sessions.
Part of the therapy process is to look at your feelings, and to feel what you are actually feeling (instead of what you think you should feel).
So if you need to cry, that's ok.
If you feel embarrassed because you cried, or if you feel anxious that you might cry, well those feelings are ok as well.
Your counselor can help you manage your feelings so that you can attain your goals, and your counseling session is the perfect place for that.
For me, I want a client to feel like I understand what brings them to seek help from me.
So I might explore both their present circumstances, as well as their history, and try to start making some connections between the two, but so that the both of us can understand what is taking place.
Not every therapist goes into history in the same way, either.
The way the therapist practices will often inform the ways in which they collect and look at data.
However, above all, my goal, especially in the beginning of therapy, is to work on developing a working rapport with any client.
Most research states that the quality of the relationship, rather than modality of therapy, indicates success rates.
One of the most essential components of rapport is that someone feels heard, attuned to, and understood.
Hi.
This is an excellent question!
I think that the answer probably varies depending upon the particular therapist.
In my work with people, once we have met and I have gotten an idea of the person'a concerns and the issues they want help with, I spend the next few sessions gathering as much history and as much information about the client's current concerns in order to formulate some ideas about what may be causing distress.
I would then share my thoughts with the client to see if they feel I am understanding them and on the right track.
We would then discuss the best plan to address the client's concerns.
Usually I will suggest strategies that I think may be helpful and ask the client for feedback about whether or not they think my suggestions feel helpful.
I always encourage clients to be really honest with me about this.
I tell them that I would hate for them to agree to try things that they know they won't try just to avoid "hurting my feelings" or "offending me.
I want to be helpful and while I have the expertise as far as typically helpful strategies, I really like to work collaboratively and have clients tell me what they do and don't like / agree with or not agree with when I share my thoughts about a treatment plan.
We the  work together to come up with a plan that will be helpful, but also realistic and then revise it and try new things if necessary as we go along.
If things aren't improving, I am very happy and willing to try something new!
I hope this is helpful for you!
There are probably no two therapists alike because first and foremost we are human beings!
And, our personalities may somewhat guide how we go about getting to know you, identifying what you would like to be different in your life and developing a plan to get where you would like to be.
The very most important thing that will determine a successful outcome is the healthy therapeutic relationship between you and your therapist.
If you don't feel safe, comfortable and ready to work together, then it is likely not a good fit.
And that's OK, speak up and the therapist should assist you in finding someone you can readily work with.
