One way to concentrate is that if your mind starts to wonder then remind yourself to bring your attention back.
Start with short time spans of expecting yourself to concentrate.
You'll more likely succeed with concentrating with small time spans than longer ones.
Once you start seeing your success, this will motivate you to try increasing the length to expect yourself to concentrate.
The task of self-reminding is the same, whether for long or short time periods.
Also, before starting this exercise ask your medical doctor if the problem can be related to a physical health problem.
If there is, then have the possibility ruled out that your difficulty concentrating comes from the mental ability to concentrate, and not some medical reason preventing this.
Before someone can engage their psychological will there must be a clean medical body and mind with which to work.
I've talked to many teens who frequently sneak out.
The question I always ask them is, "What are you getting from sneaking out that you aren't getting at home".
Many teens answer they are hooking up, using substances, and engaging in other risky behaviors.
As uncomfortable as it might be, I encourage you to talk with your parents or guardians about the reasons why you are sneaking out.
What are you getting "out there" that you aren't getting at home? A good family counselor can help sort through those issues.
Good luck!
When you say you've "been caught", I am assuming that means your parents know you've been sneaking out.
If that's the case, could you ask for their help? Sometimes just knowing someone else is holding you accountable really makes a difference.
That could be as simple as Dad checking in on you at, say, 2 am, just to make sure you are where you are supposed to be.
If you are sneaking out to hang out with friends, find another way to connect with them - if they are truly friends they will want to support you in your resolution to stay put at night.
Maybe you can ask for their support by telling them to stop including you in late night plans.
There is likely a reason you were sneaking out, but there's a reason you want to stop too - so get support.
No one changes hard habits on their own! Best of luck to you - you can do this and it will help you change other things in the future.
Hi, When we can't stop doing things that we know are wrong, it can help to take a closer look at how we make our decisions.
Usually we are getting something good out of these bad behaviors, such as feeling excited or taking our minds off of bad things.
It is really hard to change these things without helping us get the good effect in a more healthy way.
I hope this helps.
Hi.
let's start with what's causing you to sneak out of the house? Understanding the motivation behind your actions (in this case.
your sneaking out at night) can often times help you create the change you want.
Are you arguing with your parents? Do you feel misunderstood? Alone? Scared? Stressed out? What are you doing once you leave the house? Where are you going? Are people in your home in conflict? Do you feel safer when you leave? Most importantly, reflect on what may be behind the reason for your wanting to leave the house and feeling not in control of your actions? Talk to someone about what's going on, because maybe that person could help you create the movement you are seeking.
This is not totally unusual behavior, but the fact that you would like to stop and cannot seem to be able to points to something deeper.
That cannot be unpacked online, but I'm glad that you're in this space and asking this question.
Try to find a therapist who seems like a good fit and begin to get to work on this issue and what all is going on for you.
You're not alone!
Where do you go and what is your reason to go wherever this is? Try to understand these reasons because the answers may give you good guidance as to other ways to get what it is your trying to reach by sneaking from your home at night.
If for example, you're sneaking out because your parents are arguing and you feel hurt by this and want to escape hearing their arguments, then you can come up with other ways to hear less of their arguments.
If you sneak out because your parents restrict your friends or time to socialize with your friends, and your friends are doing legal and safe behaviors, then maybe you could do some socializing online with them.
Also, I wonder the reason why either of your parents isn't aware that you leave the house.
Do you feel your parent would offer and would you ask your parent to give their suggestions so you feel more motivated to stay home?
Counseling can be very effective for OCD.
In particularly, a kind of therapy called Exposure Response (Ritual) Prevention Therapy is considered the 'gold standard' for the treatment of OCD.
What this is, is a specific protocol that helps you build relaxation strategies and to increase the amount of time between your checking/cleaning rituals while also helping you to face any of the fears that OCD given you until those rituals and fears are no longer interfering with your life.
Research has shown that this kind of therapy may even be more effective for OCD than medication.
Possibly yes, and definitely worth a try.
First read about different types of therapy for OCD so that you find a therapist who does the type of therapy which feels best when you read about it.
Mood swings and getting frustrated when things don't work out is totally normal.
Sometimes, we get tied to one thing we really want to do and it can feel pretty intense when that gets interrupted or doesn't work out.
This said, you're coming to Counsel Chat and so I'm guessing this is something that is pretty intense for you and something that you are concerned about.
If this is getting in the way of your life, it may be worthwhile to reach out to a therapist or doctor to get some help with this and see if there might be something more going on.
While for most people frustration/mood swings is related to typical life and stress, if very intense it can be a sign of a number of challenges ranging from anxiety to a traumatic experience to something like Bipolar Disorder where a person's mood and energy might fly so high (mania) that one feels like they can do anything but often become frustrated when interrupted (note: there is a lot more to Bipolar Disorder than this and this is certainly not a diagnosis).
Wish you well!
Why do you blame other people who had nothing to do with your actions?
If it is because after the fact you wish you had accepted their help, then the person who is responsible for this is you! Since you are aware of your tendencies and how the interfere with your life, try to become aware of when you do these habits.
This way you can interrupt your own patterns a little bit at a time.
Teenagers are prone to mood swings due to developmental and hormonal changes that are rapidly and intensely occurring in your body and mind - so some of this happens to many people in your stage of development.
You are not at all alone.
You've taken the first and very important step in regulating your moods by just identifying that you are having these intense changes instead of being completely submerged in them and unaware! The more you are able to be a witness to your emotions and thoughts, the more you can learn to manage them.
Your question offers several clues for strategies that you can try - for example, identify the warning signs for becoming irritated and plan a response, such as taking a deep breath, informing the person you are becoming irritated and need some space, or find a distraction temporarily like listening to music or going for a walk.
Since you are aware of blaming others for things not working out, you can proactively make a personal commitment to taking ownership or personal responsibility by just thinking about it and practicing thoughts such as "I am responsible for my efforts" and "Blame is not helpful for anyone" and other thoughts that you believe and can repeat related to this insight.
When you practice thinking more rational, healthy thoughts, you are actually rewiring your brain, so practice is key!
Hearing voices can be a very upsetting experience to have.
I want you to know that a lot of people will hear a voice at some point in their lives and that there are many things that cause voices.
Oftentimes, significant stress can offset us to have symptoms like this.
There are also mental and physical health conditions that can do the same.
I strongly encourage you to seek out help from both a doctor and a counselor to help you piece together exactly what is causing your voices.
I Once you've got that down, you'll know what to work on.
In the meantime, here are some strategies to cope with voices: Lower your stress levels: Oftentimes stress makes voices worse.
What can you do to lower your stress?
Get enough Sleep: Like stress, sleep deprivation is an awful trigger for hearing voices Listen to Music; Music can help you focus on another sound.
Wear headphone or Earplugs.
Use Your Own Voice; If the voices are saying harsh things to you, it can be tempting to talk back and that's okay if you do.
However, you can also use your own voice through singing, whistling, or the like, which can help drown out the voices.
Remind Yourself that What the Voices Say is Not True; Sometimes it Helps to Write it Out.
Draw the Voice or Give it a Name; This can make it less scary and help get it outside of you.
Keep Track of When You Hear Voices to Identify Triggers; These are situations you can avoid while these are so distressful for you.
Be Kind to Yourself; When a Voice is Being Cruel to You it is especially important to be kind to yourself.
Remember that while hearing voices can be disturbing that it is a common experience and something that many people recover from.
I would recommend that you talk with a mental health professional near you about the details so you can have some really specific support for what you are going through.
I don't know if you can understand when the voices are saying, but I wonder how you feel about what you are hearing?
If the voices are just at night, is it possible that they are part of a nightmare or a dream?
If you recall your nightmares, consider writing them down so that you can remember their content and work with a mental health professional to look for patterns.
One thing that may help you while you are awake is to try to stay connected to the room you're in.
For example, take time to notice your feet on the floor, hips in the chair, and shoulders against the back of the chair.
You can also try mindfulness techniques, such as noticing what is around you or changing your breathing patterns.
These ideas may help in the meantime prior to having more specific ideas from someone near you.
Thanks for reaching out!
Are you in the middle of extreme emotional pressure right now? Or, is someone with whom you're close, under stress or somehow suffering? Dreams and nightmares are when our feelings and pressures we feel, try working themselves out without logic and language.
Even though the nightmares are horrible, they are one way your psyche is trying to come to terms with extraordinary difficulty in your life or someone's life whom you feel greatly attached.
It's important to take a look inside and find out why you are experiencing these feelings.
It could anything and it will change your life to know what your particular issue or trigger is.
Please contact us a call with the method that is most comfortable for you.
Write down your nightmares and discuss them with an analyst or psychotherapist who specializes in dreams, as I do.
If you are hearing voices while awake, see a doctor right away.
If the voices are strictly in your dreams, do call for therapy and talk to your caring others about what's happening.
I do not think there is such a thing as a psychotic seizure, however, there is something called a pseduoseizure or psychogenic non-epileptic seizure.
Basically, this is when a person shows signs of a full-on seizure (such as falling and convulsing) but they are not producing brain waves consistent with a seizure.
Psedoseizures tend to be brought on by high stress, emotional challenges, and trauma history.
Still, the best way to now what your doctor meant would be to ask them! :).
The best path is to ask your doctor what s/he meant when telling you about your high risk for psychotic seizure.
Your doctor knows you better than any of the therapists who write on this blog.
And, because your doctor knows your health, will likely have suggestions and advice for you regarding the seizures s/he thinks you may develop.
I will admit that I'm not specifically familiar with this from my own experience.
My best educated guess is that you could have a seizure during which you have some sort of symptoms similar to a hallucination (which is one of the psychotic symptoms) when you hear or see things that aren't really there.
In looking briefly online, it sounds like this would be a symptom in addition to an already existing seizure disorder, not a seizure disorder in addition to a mental health problem.
If it is the other way around, I'm not sure how that would work.
It is common with some types of seizures to have an altered state of reality during or shortly after the seizure, so that could also be related.
I would suggest you talk to your physician about this directly so that if they are worried about this, you can learn more about what is making them concerned about it and what, if anything, you could do to lessen the likelihood of it or how to handle it if it does happen.
Scary thoughts can feel overwhelming at times as well as feeling quite real.
I want to acknowledge how scary they can feel, but there is hope and new skills you can learn to work with these types of thoughts.
The first step in working with scary or negative thoughts is to acknowledge that they are just thoughts and we can choose to follow the scary thought streams or work with cutting them off or ignoring them.
I also realize that might seem really hard to do, but here's a good way to think about the brain and how thought patterns work.
Thoughts arise in the mind all the time, our brain is a thought machine.
Many thoughts drift by like clouds and we don't pay any attention while other thoughts arise and they trigger us in a particulate way, such as scary, angry, happy, sad, and when those thoughts arise we can chose to pay more attention to the thought which can lead us down that particulate thought stream that will lead to fear and anxiety.
So, how do we work or stop those scary thought streams?
One new skill to implement comes from the work of Rick Hansen, he wrote the book Buddha's Brain," he teaches that we need to give more energy and attention to the positive thoughts or positive memories we hold in our mind and pay less attention to the negative thoughts.
Hansen asks us to imagine the brain this way, the brain is like Velcro with negative thoughts and like Teflon when it comes to positive thoughts.
There are reasons that our brain works this way, but I don't have time to go into all of that in this response.
So, it's just important to remember we have to work at positive thinking, actually pausing throughout the day to focus on positive feelings and memories, this will help the mind reinforce positive thought streams and help reduce negative thought streams over time.
If a scary thought arises try to replace it with a happy experience for at least a couple of moments, and see if that helps reduce the negative charge connected with that scary thought.
Start by spending small amounts of time with your own thoughts and feelings.
Always being focused on what a phone offers keeps people at a distance from knowing themselves.
As long as you make time to spend in an activity which is not interactive the way a phone is, and instead depends only upon your actions, you will be investing time and energy into your own life.
Whether by consciously considering your own interests, or doing housecleaning or chores, by devoting yourself to areas which you decide to be involved in, you will increase your knowledge of your own interests.
Then, to not be so involved with your phone will be natural and easy.
You definitely want to make sure not to inadvertently create an inappropriate dual relationship with a client.
In fact, it is not uncommon for state regulatory boards to determine that a clinician and client being in the same 12 step group is professional misconduct.
You might want to consider attending a 12 step meeting that is located in a different community than the one you work in.
Another option would be to look for one-on-one or small group recovery support.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
I know that workplaces have some latitude when it comes to requiring certain behaviors from their employees.
For example, they may require you to tell them if you get into some kind of legal trouble.
But this situation seems completely different.
For one thing, 12 step meetings are supposed to be anonymous.
I am not sure how they would know that you attended unless you or someone else told them.
I agree that it seems like to cross a line.
Usually each state has an office that manages complaints related to employment, such as the Department of Labor or EEOC.
You may want to see which entity is in your state and contact them.
It would be worth asking them to see if this is a legal practice.
If it is but you still want/need to stay at this job, then you may want to look for alternate sources of support for your sobriety.
There are active online support groups that would allow you to do things from the privacy of your home.
There are also online groups that specifically discuss the 12 steps.
No matter what, I give you a lot of credit for doing your best to keep your sobriety and continuing to see the value in having support.
I'm so sorry to hear of your loss.
This sounds like a really difficult situation for the whole family.
Since the answer to this question will depend a lot on the applicable state laws, I would suggest talking with a local attorney.
That being said, I see two competing issues here.
On the one side is the duty of confidentiality the counselors owed to your relative.
On the other side is the duty the counselors had to act reasonably to protect your relative from harm.
Generally there is not a requirement for substance abuse treatment centers to notify family members if an adult client relapses.
A local attorney will be able to provide more specific guidance on the legal obligations and liabilities in this situation.
I am so sorry for your loss.
Generally therapists only have a duty to report self-harm to one’s self or others if it is expressed to them.
Often times they will not report relapses due to the fact that proper releases were not signed or patient has specifically asked them not to for fear of shaming or failure again.
I understand this may not be the answer you were hoping for.
I would encourage the family to seek therapy themselves for help coping with such a loss.
This sounds like a potentially serious situation.
The most important thing is to make sure the child is safe.
If you suspect that a child is (or has been) harmed, I would strongly recommend that you report your concerns to your local law enforcement or to Child Protective Services.
If you don't think that a child is in danger, you can still report your suspicion of counselor misconduct to the state regulatory board.
I will admit I am confused about this question.
Are you the other parent in question or a concerned coworker of this therapist?
Therapists do not prescribe or have access to medication.
Most therapists won't even get involved in a custody battle.
They know there is a good chance of their records ending up in court and that they themselves will have to testify in court.
Of course, therapists are human and can make mistakes, but I find it highly unlikely that a therapist would knowingly and willingly do something like this that is such a major ethical violation.
Not only are they losing their license to practice by doing this, they are going to face criminal charges and jail time.
If their clinical judgment is that the other parent is a danger to the child, they don't have to resort to illegal means to try to prove this.
If you have concrete proof that this has happened then there is a process in which you can file a report against the therapist with their licensure board.
Every therapist is licensed in their state.
Most accusations from the other parent are expected in a custody situation because people do tend to get quite ugly.
Don't accuse the therapist or the parent of anything just to try to make yourself look better and them look bad.
Have evidence of wrongdoing before accusing them of this.
If this has really happened then of course it needs to be reported, but don't try to ruin someone's career unless you are sure this occurred.
The general rule against medical abandonment says that whenever healthcare providers discontinue treatment with you when you still need it, they are legally required to make sure that you have access to another provider of equal or higher ability.
In this case, if your treatment team decided to discontinue your treatment based on a diagnosis of schizophrenia, they still will likely be required to provide you with a referral to someone who can provide you with treatment.
If you haven't already done so, I'd recommend that you explicitly ask for a referral.
My recommendation would be to try to talk to your therapist about this from your description, it sounds like you have a legitimate explanation for missing your scheduled session.
Maybe if you could explain that to her she would be willing to work with you.
If she is not willing to consider your explanation and if she is not willing to continue working with you, she still has an ethical obligation to provide you with referral resources to another therapist.
Mental health providers should promptly return calls from current clients as well as from potential clients.
This is even true if the social worker (or counselor) is unable to make an appointment with the caller.
In that case the social worker should call you back to let you know that he is unable to schedule an appointment with you.
In addition, mental health providers have an obligation to follow through with their own communication standards.
For example, if the social worker in this case has an outgoing voicemail message that promises returned calls within 24 hours, he has an obligation to follow through on that promise.
All that being said, it is also worth remembering that mental health professionals are just people too.
It is possible that he had an unforeseen emergency that kept him from returning your call promptly.
In the end, I agree with Sherry's advice.
If you feel this social worker is not a good fit for you, you probably should trust your gut and find someone else who is a better fit.
Yes, your former social worker should return your phone call.
It is the professional ethic to do so and plain human decency to do so.
If he doesn't, there is nothing you can directly do about the fact of his ignoring you.
There are formal complaints you can make, which you can consider doing.
What matters most is receiving social work service.
Stick with looking for another social worker who is willing to help you.
The self-doubts you mention may be worth examining.
They do not, however excuse the social worker mishandling himself.
It can be difficult to get counseling if you don't feel supported by family members.
There might be a few options.
If you are in school, I'd recommend talking to a school counselor or school nurse.
They often will be able to help you access free or affordable counseling resources in your community.
In addition, depending on where you live, it's also often possible to call 211 for referrals to free or low cost counseling services in your area.
I'd encourage you not to give up.
You are on the right track.
Your doctor might be required to tell your psychiatrist - especially if your doctor is concerned about your safety.
It was definitely a good thing that you told your primary care physician about what is going on.
I know that must have been difficult to talk about with him.
By having that conversation, you are helping your primary care physician and your psychiatrist work together to best support your health.
There are typically three reasons why therapy is terminated: 1) Client has met therapy goals 2) Client is not progressing 3) Therapist is not a good fit for client.
In order to properly assess whether therapy is helping and what progress is being made, the therapist needs to have ways of consistently checking in with clients sessions-by-session to determine what is helping, what isn't, and where the client is at in relation to their original therapy goals.
When a client has met their goals, that is a good time to end counselling sessions unless the client has new goals or simply wants to check-in periodically to make sure that they are still on track (sometimes referred to as relapse prevention).
When a client is not progressing, and feedback has been taken and attempts have been made to make the therapy more helpful for the client but to no avail, than it is considered unethical to continue to work with the client.
In these circumstances, referring out to another therapist who may be a better fit is a good idea.
Hello.
The end of the counselor/client relationship is one of mutual respect and engagement.
Counseling sessions can end for any number of reasons.
Among them are the client's inability to make forward progress in therapy; the clinician's inability to help the client (for a variety of reasons); a mutually agreed upon time frame for a number of sessions to be provided; or the financial challenges of the client who decides that they need to put their resources elsewhere.
In this last case, a counselor should never cancel sessions with a client simply on the basis of the client's inability to pay.
That is traditionally seen as an unethical practice.
Other arrangements can be made to provide care to the client, which in itself should be paramount.
When the client and therapist decide that services are done, it is best if there is at least one or two more sessions to allow a case file review to occur, and to bring an appropriate psychological sense of closure to the client (and vicariously to the clinician as well, those this is perhaps not as important).
This transition gives both a sense of having reached the end of a journey.
rather than some abrupt departure from it.
(An abrupt ending in therapy can have a varying level of impact both emotionally and psychologically on the client and therapist).
Sometimes the closure of therapy is the result of a program of therapy being formally completed, in which there is a mutually known (albeit perhaps approximate) date of when that program will be finished.
In this case, the client is likely feeling that impending closure and has time to prepare mentally and emotionally from a place of being the client in therapy, to a place of healing, growth and situational resolution.
I have always worked in therapy with the following slogan (if you will), that I learned years ago during graduate school: "Not every therapist is good for every client, and not every client is good for every therapist".
It is perhaps one of the most important guiding views I hold in working with clients.
The therapeutic relationship is driven by mutuality - the desire of the client to get better at living life, and the therapist's desire to truly see the client heal and grow.
When there is a block in this process from either side that prevents that synergy from occurring, the relationship that should be established may not be able to form.
Or, if already formed, may at some point be unable to move forward.
In these instances, referring the client to another type of service or clinician is appropriate.
Usually, this can be seen pretty quickly by either party, though sometimes it is not always clear.
Ultimately, the client and counselor need to work together to discover if the needs of the client (which is paramount) are being met in the therapeutic engagement with their current counselor, or if other arrangements need to be made to go elsewhere.
If both are observant in this process, they can work together to maintain that sacred space and continue to reach the goals that have been set.
Eventually, therapy will end, but hopefully based on the client's successful journey to the place where they wanted to go, and thus opening the next chapters of their life to a space that is more whole and brighter.
Hopefully both the client and counselor would together decide when to terminate counseling sessions.
It's really helpful for the client to leave counseling with a solid sense of what he or she has accomplished in counseling, so it can be a good idea to spend some time acknowledging that in the last session or sessions.
Sometimes, however, a client has needs beyond the scope of the counselor's expertise.
That's a good time for a conversation about those needs and ideas of how best to meet them, whether by adding in care with an additional mental health professional or transferring care entirely to a new mental health provider.
There are different reasons why a counselor may seek to terminate with a client and these will each have different processes by which the counselor will come to that decision.
Here are a few examples.
The counselor may determine that the client's needs are outside what the counselor is competent to be able to work with.
A person may have come to the counselor talking about a particular issue but either when they first met or as counseling progressed, it may become clear that the issue is in fact something different or that there is an additional related issue.
If that issue is outside the competence of the counselor, the counselor should look for alternatives, the most common of which would be to terminate and refer.
Beyond clinical issues, this could also come up around particular other related facts, such as the culture of the client or linguistic issues.
This could also be the choice of the counselor if they know someone that they feel would be a better match for the client's issues.
Another reason for discharge (and possible referral) would be if the relationship does not seem to be a good fit.
No counselor is the right person to work with everyone.
If the right level of connection is not happening, the counselor will often look first at what they are doing, might talk about it with the client and ultimately will admit that things don't seem to be working to allow the desired therapeutic process to work.
A similar process would be followed if the counselor determined that the client might not yet be ready for counseling as evidenced by lack of engagement such as frequent cancellations, not doing any agreed on work between sessions, showing up late or being really guarded in session.
The easiest situation to decide on is when a person has met their counseling goals and have nothing new that they are working on.
While this is the easiest one to determine, it is also probably the hardest one for the counselor as they may be like the client in not wanting the relationship to come to an end.
However, counselors know that this is part of the process.
They will also determine this by regularly reviewing the treatment plan or by sending in the sessions that the work has come to an end.
This type of termination maybe final or may be with the intent that the client will return later to address other things that have been identified but for which they are not ready to move into.
All of these (and other) situations involves the counselor being open to the relationship ending, to monitoring how things are going, then engaging in self-reflection, possibly talking with the client and then coming to a conclusion on which the counselor follows through.
From the very beginning of counseling sessions I emphasize that the work will and must end at some point.
In counseling there is an arc to the process.
A beginning, middle and end.
I am always digging, searching and exploring.
There comes a point where things come to their natural ending.
I always leave an opening for continuing counseling in the future.
At least as a check in.
For most: When the money/insurance runs out.
When best: When the job is done.
and you're feeling much better.
It is usually time to end counseling sessions when it is clear to both the client and the counselor that therapeutic goals have been reached and enough improvement has been made that the client can continue without that support.
There are exceptions to this rule, but for the most part this is when counselors begin termination.
For some clients, this is an easy process that marks the achievements they have made in working through their emotions and difficulties.
For some other clients, however, this is a difficult process in which they are losing a valuable support and are understandably anxious about what life will be like without the frequent meetings.
Ultimately, termination is different for everyone, and there are many ways that termination can be healthy and helpful.
As a therapist who believes in client self-determination above most other elements of the process, I want to as much as possible leave it up to the client to determine when they are finished.
In the case of a termination because a client's distress has resolved, I might periodically check in with the client about how therapy has been going, and if we want to re-evaluate where we are.
The more unfortunate situation would come about if I felt that I wasn't the best fit for the client.
I would offer that in words, and ideas of therapists (with names) of who I thought might be a better fit and why.
It still is up to the client whether to continue, however should they want to keep seeing me, a part of the work would be about that want (to see someone who professionally doesn't believe they can help as much as someone else).
I also find it perplexing when I hear a client (or on a personal level) tell me that their therapist said they "didn't need therapy".
I don't know that I buy into that scenario all that much, because I do believe that yes, not everyone NEEDS therapy, but that everyone CAN benefit from therapy and I don't believe it is the therapist's job to deter someone from ever seeking out help of any kind.
Ideally, termination should be a mutual process.
It's not that the therapist kicks the client out at some point and says, "Okay, you're done".
Rather, over time the client will decrease the frequency with which he/she comes to session so that it may start off as weekly, then decrease to biweekly, then perhaps once every three weeks, then once/month and so on.
Throughout this process, the therapist and client should have had regular check ins about progress toward goals.
If the client feels good about where he/she is in life, he/she might decide to suspend therapy for now.
That being said, the therapist should make it very clear that if the client ever decided to return for "maintenance" therapy or a check in, he/she would always be welcome.
There is no hard and fast rule to ending or a particular time period in which it must end.
What matters most is that the client feels good about it and knows that the therapist will always be there should he/she wish to return.
For a therapist, deciding to end counseling sessions or terminate working with a client is a thoughtful and intentional decision.
One that is not entered into lightly.
While there are many considerations counselors take into account, to help answer this question, I'll offer an example of two areas that counselor's take into consideration when ending counseling sessions: Does the client need different or more specialized care than the current counselor can provide? This requires the counselor to determine whether referring the client to another therapist or health care provider is needed.
And, has the therapeutic relationship reached treatment goal(s)? While this question is specific to the counselor, I'd like to also add that a client, at any time, can end counseling.
In general, I usually let the client decide when this should occur, sometimes with some clients it will be a joint agreement, but even in that case it should weigh mostly on what the client feels.
In short, therapy ends when you feel you’re done.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
There are several reasons for a counselor to decide to end counseling.
A major reason to end counseling is if the counselor feels that he or she does not have the skills or experience to work with the client.
This may happen during the intake process or after working with the client for some time.
If the clinician feels that the client is not benefitting from the therapy, it is ethical to suggest that the client terminate the therapy.
The process of termination must not injure the client and, if necessary, the clinician may need to refer the client to other treatment modalities.
Another reason to terminate working with a client is if the client needs a higher level of care.
If the client has a crisis or is at risk of hurting himself or someone else, he or she may need a higher level of care.
In this circumstance, the clinician may need to involve outside services such as a crisis unit.
A third reason to terminate with a client is if the clinician feels that he or she cannot remain professional with the client relationship.
For example, if the issues that the client is working on bring up something significant for the clinician and the clinician feels that he is unable to separate that from the professional relationship.
In this instance, the clinician should refer the client to another therapist.
Finally, if the client has reached her goals for therapy and no longer needs treatment, the clinician and client should terminate treatment.
Counseling ends when the client has received the maximum benefit from the therapist.
Even if the therapist believes the client is not making progress, the client may feel they are improving and receiving a benefit.
And the therapist may see a benefit and the client does not.
It is best to have ongoing dialogue with the client to determine when termination is appropriate.
In the best case scenario, it's a mutual discussion and decision.
If not, I've had the discussion initiated both ways, by me, when I sense the client has gone has far as they want, by lack of interest in accepting or completing homework assignments, missing or cancelling appointments, usually at the last minute, lack of participation during sessions.
Client initiates by asking me pointed questions about why the need for homework assignments,, by forgetting their calendar, or their checkbook :) , by suggesting that we make appointments over longer intervals (once a week to once a month, for example).
I rarely have had to terminate a working relationship--that's why I don't charge for the first visit, so we know if we are a good fit before we start working together.
Then I periodically ask whether the client feels we are making progress, moving in the right direction, talking about the most relevant issues etc.
In my therapy practice the decision to end therapy is mutually made together with the patient.
Otherwise, the person can end up with a sense of tremendous rejection and abandonment.
The way you'll both know therapy is coming to a close is that the discussion will feel lighter and move easily.
The person's mood will be better, they will smile more, sit in their seat in a more relaxed way, look more at ease, take better care of their appearance.
One of the ways to end therapy is to gradually decrease the frequency of the sessions.
Sometimes people who are in my practice start to come each three weeks, then monthly, then every three months.
This gives a sense of security, friendliness, and casualness to the therapy, and de-medicalizes it as though the person was treated for a medical symptom and the symptom stops completely one day.
Talk therapy is about life and life problems usually end gradually.
I end my therapy in a way which mirrors the life process in which many interaction and situation problems show their effects gradually and show different effects over time.
Hi there, there are a number of reasons why a therapeutic relationship might end including, but not limited to the client reaching their goals, the client reaching a place of acceptance where they wish to remain or even a breach within the relationship.
The last aspect should likely be taken to supervision in order to be fully processed.
All of these things could happen, and usually happen organically (again, except for the last example).
Your question, however, was about the counselor ending treatment.
This is a bit more difficult and can be very nerve-wracking.
It may be beneficial to take this with you to supervision, as well.
It's important to understand why you feel the need to end or terminate with the client, as well.
Do you feel that they would be better suited for another therapist, have they achieved their goals or is it something else?
In regular, open-ended sessions, I try to make a point of checking in with the clients fairly frequently.
In these check-ins, I use the time to ask the client how they feel about the sessions and if there is anything they wish to focus on more astutely.
I also ask if they have any immediate goals that they would like to prioritize.
In goal-oriented sessions, I check in more frequently to ensure that both the client and I remain focused and, should they wish to shift their focus, that they recognize it is part of my responsibilities to make sure we move back to the desired goal.
Often, especially in longer term therapeutic relationships, we as clinicians can see that the client has reached their goal, however they are apprehensive about ending therapy.
This is actually a great place to go with them; why would they feel unable to handle issues in their external or internal environment without you?
Often, having this open discussion can increase empowerment and mastery.
That said, it could also highlight other issues which the client may have been apprehensive about going into within therapy and now, as the relationship seems to be ending, feels more confident in bringing these up.
In the case where the relationship is a toxic one, terminating with a client may be the best option for both of you.
It's a difficult conversation, but recall that part of the role of the therapist is to model that these discomforts can be managed.
I hope that this brief response can assist you going forward!
This is a question that is very specific to each person.
There are definitely some variables, but I can give you some general ideas for when counseling might end: When a client has met all of their goals, at least to a degree when they feel that they no longer need to work on them with the assistance of a counselor.
Sometimes a decision is made that a client is no longer benefiting from counseling at a certain time .
Sometimes clients have to remain in counseling in order to receive medication.
This depends on agency policy, but sometimes it is a requirement.
If the medication is necessary and cannot be prescribed by a primary care physician, frequency of sessions is usually decreased greatly.
I'm not sure why you are asking this question, but it is also something that is often discussed at the beginning of treatment.
Oftentimes "discharge goals" change as treatment progresses because more is known about clients, their goals, changes in their goals, and many other things.
Changes are normal, but your counselor probably has discharge goals in mind, at least generally, from the beginning.
I strongly encourage you to ask about it!
I'm sorry to hear that this has happened.
Counselors are legally and ethically required to make sure that they always put the wellbeing of their clients above their own interests.
In addition, counselor ethical rules, and the laws in just about every state, make it illegal for counselors to take advantage of a client financially.
A counselor borrowing money from a client (even if the counselor pays it back) would usually be considered to be taking advantage of the client.
There are a few options you have at this point if you can't (or don't want) to continue to try to contact him directly.
You can file a complaint with your states' regulatory board and let them know what has happened.
An investigator will then look into the situation for you.
Another option would be for you to find a different counselor who can provide you with an independent and neutral point of view to help you figure out how you want to handle this situation.
Do you want this therapist to have your credit card information? If not, then cancel the credit cards that you believe may now be accessible to this therapist.
Therapists are expected to keep very clear boundaries between the therapy work and not have other relationships, such as "friend" or "money lender" with someone who is their patient.
Therapists are never "friends" with their patients.
Letting you believe that you are the therapist's friend, is a violation of professional ethics and almost definitely, a violation of the Consumer Protection laws in your State.
Start by dropping this person as your therapist.
He has broken too many ethical standards to be worthy of offering therapy.
Think over if you'd like remaining friends with this person, whom you describe as lacking integrity and stealing from you.
If you need help getting back money from him, then contact the police and talk to a detective about what has happened so far.
The detective will advise according to the laws in your community and State, whether to file a police report, and what steps are necessary to utilize the Court system to get back your funds.
If you'd like doing future patients who may be treated to similar ways by this therapist, a favor, go online and file a complaint with the therapist's Licensing Board.
Good luck!
Therapists, regardless of the discipline (licensed professional counselor, social worker, psychologist) are expected to put the health and well-being of the client first.
Each professional discipline does have a code of ethics as well as a licensing board in each state.
In order to get licensed the therapist must agree to abide by the highest standards of conduct including state, local and federal regulations in addition to the code of conduct.
You do have the option of reporting this person to the appropriate licensing board in your state.
The other concern is if this person has unauthorized access to your credit card.
If you did not give it to him or authorize use this becomes a legal matter that you can also report to the legal authorities in your city or town.
Therapy and counseling are effective because professionals gain the trust of the client.
Betrayal of that trust by crossing boundaries and developing a relationship outside the therapist/client relationship is hurtful.
Please know that the vast majority of counselors are highly ethical individuals who put the welfare of the client first.
In case you feel some relief to know you're feeling the tone of our times.
We live with crumbling of our values which then gives rise to insecurity everywhere.
If someone doesn't know what their values are then it’s difficult to do anything, and right now every day we hear uncertainty in what used to be our basic assumptions.
More normal for noticing and feeling stressed than if you imagine life felt fine the way it is! One road to take is to accept that there are no clear roads forward.
This means to change long term goals into shorter ones.
Also, in general the more focused you can be as to your particular wishes, motivations, interests, and people about whom you care, the greater will be your sense of confidence that your personal world is as secure as it can be for right now.
And, it helps too to know that nothing lasts forever, eventually all of what is up in the air will start to land in a much more clear way.
Part of handling stress is making sure that your perception of the stress is accurate.
Sometimes stress can seem more than it really is.
One thing that I encourage my clients to do is to ask themselves, "What is this stressor really about".
Simplifying stress is a key to minimizing stress and leads to feeling less stressed out.
There are many causes for feeling stressed out.
Between a demanding job, family responsibilities, and everything else that can come up, stress becomes more and more part of our everyday life.
One of the best ways to combat the toxic effects of stress on our bodies, social lives, and overall well-being is to engage in self-care.
But not the self-care that most people think of like vacations or massages.
The best self-care is the kind that helps you live the life that you already have rather than escape it.
You see, the reason why vacations and massages don't work long term in reducing stress is that they allow you to escape from what is causing the stress without truly fixing it so you just return to what already stressed you out.
So, instead you need to find ways to help live with the stressors that you already have.
They can be things like creating a more manageable schedule, introducing healthy eating or exercising, financial planning, and even learning a few simple relaxation skills.
The key to combatting stress is to make small but consistent changes to your life so that it becomes more manageable and more enjoyable.
Something different works for each of us.
There are the outward answers of self-pampering and making your home and work environment as pleasant as possible.
A deeper level way to decrease stress is through exercise or alternative practices like yoga or tai chi.
If the stress is more deeply rooted than temporarily feeling irritated for a few days, then give yourself some time to reflect and clarify what the meaning of the stress is to you.
Self-understanding and appreciating your efforts to know yourself may decrease stress because you'll be more focused and attentive to who you are.
This will influence you overall to make good decisions for yourself and these will naturally be ones which decrease stress as much as possible.
Our body reacts to stress typically by breathing more shallowly, increasing our heart rate and tensing our muscles - so one thing that I find really effective is to try to do the opposite of that, which sends the signal to our mind that we are relaxed.
So that means, taking slower, fuller breaths and trying to relax any areas where we might be gripping our muscles.
Check out meditation apps such as 'Breathe', which can talk you through a relaxing breath exercise.
I recommend using the app daily, whether you feel stressed or not, and then also using it when you’re feeling particular moments of stress - that way you are practicing the skill when you feel calm(wish) and it'll be ready and able to help you when stress hits hard.
Learn how to meditate.
I recommend a Mindful Based Stress Reduction MBSR program.
A good start is to pay attention to some basic issues: sleep, nutrition, exercise and socially supportive relationships.
A great car on an empty tank will not get you very far.
Maybe it is a way to secretly satisfy your own wish to be or to live life gay.
Sometimes the reason for being attracted to older men is because of growing up with a father who was distant.
If you grew up having enough interaction with your dad to know you'd have liked more and didn't receive this, then maybe your longings of childhood are still active within you.
It is ok to like older men.
Just be sure you're not idealizing them, or anyone else.
Because regardless of age, a relationship is based on who the two people really are, not how we'd like imagining them.
Hi Montreal, I'm glad you wrote.
What you're experiencing is normal.
We're sexual beings.
We have a built-in desire to connect sexually with others, because it feels good, to keep procreation going, and mostly to "connect" with other people, because connecting with others makes us feel fulfilled and valuable.
Sexual desire is a healthy part of you.
Maybe your body is telling you it wants to dive into that water and taste it instead of just staring at it?
It sounds like you're beginning to explore yourself sexually, and that's okay.
At your young age, you also have another innate burning desire, and that is to know yourself.
I see both of these desires burning and competing in you.
It's a bit of a crazy time.
you want to connect with others but you're not sure who you are or what you want from them.
You want to know yourself but you can't learn about yourself in a vacuum.
It's okay to trust your instincts.
It's okay to connect sexually with others, as long as you're preventing disease and pregnancy and you know how to protect your boundaries.
But even as I write this, I think maybe I'm being controlling and overprotective of you; it's your body and you're in charge of what happens to it! (But I do want you to be safe.
whatever that means to you).
Maybe talk to someone you trust.
With each encounter you have with other people (sexual or not), you will learn more about yourself and what you want, both sexually and just in relationship or friendship.
You will develop a sense of who you are.
Have you tried to get to know yourself sexually?
This is a super place to start, and knowing how your own body works can give you confidence when you eventually connect with others.
When you explore your own body, what feels good? What brings you to orgasm?
I wish you well as you explore both who you are and how it feels to connect with others safely.
Writing about your high school masturbation times with your friend, is itself a form of acknowledging the full picture of who you are.
You are doing well to reflect on your actions in the truthful way you are doing.
Also positive is that you have perspective, that at your age and social maturity, you were innocently doing something that in adult terms, would be considered in a negative way.
Maybe through your more mature mind's eye of today, you can feel some compassion and understanding for your high school self.
This way your sense of self-judgment may start to dissolve a little bit more.
