Hello, I commend you for your courage in taking a look at the role alcohol has in your life.
It sounds like you're concerned about what happens when you drink too much and I suspect you already know the answer to your question about whether you have a problem or not.
I imagine you would like to stop feeling guilty and would like to avoid cheating on your boyfriend or other negative consequences and maybe have a fear of being or becoming an "addict" or "alcoholic.
You might have a "problem" but that does not necessarily mean that you are an addict.
I don't have information to know if "addiction" or "dependence" or other words would best describe where you are with drinking, but it sounds like it's begun to have some negatives, so forgive me using words like addict, dependence and so on.
I mean it more as a road map than a diagnosis.
The feedback I'm writing here is very general and doesn't address physical dependence and many other factors that might apply to your situation.
One of the ways to think about substance (mis)use is to think of addiction as a disease of avoidance.
Let me repeat that: it is a disease of avoidance.
Your ultimate task in living a balanced life is to figure out what you're avoiding and develop other ways to manage those feelings, experiences, and so on.
And of course, along the way, you may want to look at triggers, situations, biological vulnerability, social pressures, coping skills, relapse prevention planning and so on.
Depending on where you are in your drinking, you might very well benefit from expertise and support.
Remember also that alcohol depresses our central nervous system and disinhibits us.
That means that alcohol is often a substance of choice to relax, destress, calm down, etc.
Also, it allows feelings, thoughts, and behaviors that we usually inhibit to be expressed.
If you were unfaithful and often angry, that's your first signpost.
For angry drinkers, it is often true that you don't drink and then get angry, you drink in order to express anger.
I recommend you find someone you can speak frankly with, who is knowledgeable about addiction.
Wishing you the best health and wellness.
Guilt is a narcissistic, self-indulgent focus on me, me, me; it's best not to keep it in negative light; What does that mean? Well, it stems from mankind having an animal nature, and a spiritual nature;In most societies today, the animal nature is looked down upon, seen as egregious and something to be put away;If I may say to you, it is necessary and important (if you wish to end an experience called "guilt") to NOT regard your animal nature as negative, but to accept that you have it, and acknowledge it; The more openly a man or woman acknowledges they're animal-side, the quicker one may subdue it;Try giving your animal nature a name, and talk to it like a cute pet.
I offer that getting a professional assessment is in order to look at your relationship with alcohol.
Speaking with a licensed therapist will help you figure out if indeed you have a problem or not.
I would say the first question you should ask yourself is why you are drinking? The second would be why you feel the need to drink in excess? It may be due to a life event or the crowd you are running with.
Either way a therapist will be able to help you through this as you already made the first step in admitting you are having a difficult time.
Usually when someone asks if they have a problem, they believe they do have a problem! The first step is to understand your own theory and definition as to what problem you feel you have.
Some possibilities are feeling unhappy in the relationship to your boyfriend, not having enough discussion between the two of you, not feeling cared about by your boyfriend, not liking your boyfriend.
Did you grow up in a family in which the grownups drank to the point of excess at the times they felt stressed?Family modeling of how to handle problems may have left you no knowing how to handle stress except to drink to excess.
Ask yourself what it is you feel guilty of doing? The guilt may point you in a good direction if it is your sense of self-esteem telling you to find better ways of managing your life.
Do you drink alone or together with friends?Try defining your specific reasons for drinking because this is the first step to know how to handle the situation differently.
More information would be needed for me to accurately answer this question, such as your age, whether you live with your dad or not, and what other family members live in the household.
Something like this, alcoholism, is a whole family disease.
In other words, family members often unknowingly contribute to the alcoholism and enable the alcoholic to continue the destructive behavior.
First of all, you can make your dad do anything, and constantly nagging him or begging him to stop is just going to make him defensive and make this worse.
Nobody can change another person.
What you can do is change how you react to him and the things that you and other family members do for him.
Research codependency.
There is a great book called Codependent No More.
There are a lot of articles on the internet that you can read.
In short, you have to stop enabling him.
Like I said, you cannot control him, but you can control yourself.
This means do not buy his alcohol.
Do not make it easy for him to get.
Do not bail him out of jail when he gets arrested.
He needs to be responsible for himself.
This may mean losing his job or losing his driver's license.
This may mean that he loses his family if he doesn't stop.
What you and your family can do is set boundaries about what you will put up with.
It is his choice to drink, but it is your choice to put up with the behaviors of his drinking.
A lot of people go into rehab because their spouse said if they don't then they are getting a divorce.
If you are an adult and you don't live with your dad, then the best thing you can do for him is STOP doing things for him.
If you are a child who lives at home with him, then this could be a case for child protective services.
In my state this is called DHS.
A report is made to this organization for child abuse or neglect.
Substance abuse in the home qualifies.
Of course, alcohol is legal and when consumed in moderation, there is no problems.
The problem will be the result of his alcohol consumption.
Does he drive with children in the car while intoxicated? Is he left to care for minors while in an intoxicated state? Are there any domestic violence issues due to his drinking? This could be a reason for the authorities to step in.
You can look for a local meeting for family members of alcoholics.
They are similar to the AA meetings that an alcoholic should go to, but are for the family members.
They can help you.
Your dad needs to be aware that he has a problem and be willing to make some changes in order for him to be motivated to stop.
Often times individuals will be forced to stop when they were not ready.
Remember we can not ever make someone do something they do not want to do.
There needs to be at least a little willingness on the other party to make some changes.
I would encourage you to reach out to your family or other loved ones and have a conversation with your dad regarding your concerns.
Hi.
Good for you in planning ahead to do what's healthiest for your baby (and yourself).
That's a great first step! It's also good that you are able to identify that it's not always a physical need that's driving the addiction.
For the next steps, I would suggest trying to figure out when the psychological cravings for a cigarette occur.
The psychological (or mental) cravings are usually based out of habit, such as having a cigarette after a meal.
And if you're consciously trying to quit, you'll find the craving starts with simply thinking about having a cigarette, then usually moves on to thinking about how good it made you feel, etc.
, etc.
Well, if I'm on a diet and I continue to let myself think about the ice cream sitting in the freezer, eventually I'll give in and eat it.
You're going to have thoughts about smoking a cigarette.
That's normal and, for the most part, out of your control.
But you choose whether or not to CONTINUE thinking and dwelling about it after that initial thought.
That's what you would have to work on changing.
When you have that initial thought, acknowledge it ("Ok, I kind of want a cigarette now.
), but then change the thoughts that typically follow.
Distract yourself, think about something else, do something else, whatever it takes to get your mind off of that cigarette.
I've suggested to clients before that they should plan these scenarios out ahead of time so they already know what they're going to do when the time comes.
Write down when you usually have the craving for a cigarette and then write down new thoughts or things to do to get your mind off of it.
Eventually, it will become easier and easier to brush off that initial thought until you no longer have it.
Best of luck, and you have a really great motivator to quit - your baby!
First off, I would like to congratulate you on making the decision to stop smoking.
The next thing I want to share is that there are so many different ways to kick the habit.
Some people find solace in groups, while others prefer to see a counselor about this individually.
Remember, that the crux of addiction is feeling one way and using a substance or thing to feel a different way.
My suggestion is to find an addiction counselor and create an individualized plan together to help you stop smoking .
Your chances of stopping smoking are much higher when you have professional support and a plan to work on outside of your sessions.
While smoking can be incredibly difficult to quit doing, it's not impossible, so the first thing to NOT lose is hope.
And certainly planning to have a baby can be exactly the catalyst that one needs to motivate to complete this sort of task.
But, as I said, it still won't be easy, even with the motivation there.
There is a definite physical component, but it's great that you can acknowledge the psychological addiction that exists.
It would be helpful to dive into what that psychological need actually is, as it can vary from person to person (whereas the physical addiction doesn't as much, and therefor can be helped through gums and patches and inhalers, etc.
) Exploring and getting to the root of the psychological need can help you to determine what is going on for you psychologically, and how else you can meet those needs of yours, perhaps in much healthier and more adaptive ways, that also help you to feel really good about yourself.
While replacement is not always advocated, having psychological needs is not something to be ashamed of, but rather nurtured.
It's very admirable that you are trying to stop smoking for the sake of your health and your child's health.
The mental aspect of quitting a drug can and usually is the hardest part.
First, it can be helpful to change the focus of your thinking so you are focusing on the healthy behaviors you will start/improve rather than only focusing on the behavior that you are trying to stop.
The reason for this is that our brains hear the main topic of our thoughts.
That is, when you tell yourself "quit smoking, quit smoking, quit smoking", your brain hears "smoking, smoking, smoking".
So we need to put together a self-care plan that addresses your thinking, emotions, and behaviors (nutrition, physical activity, and other stress reducing activities).
The idea is to have an effective plan in place to both prevent yourself from feeling intense stress (which increases cravings) and to have a well-placed plan for when the intense cravings inevitably present themselves.
And lastly, and possibly the most important; You have to believe you deserve to be the healthiest version of yourself.
Think about the times when you are most vulnerable to smoke (stressful situations, after meals, when drinking, social situations, etc.
).
The use of affirmations is also an important resource as what we say to ourselves effects our mood.
Repeatedly telling yourself "i am healthy, "i am getting healthier, "my lungs are becoming clear and healthy" or other affirmations like this.
Even if you don't believe them at first, continue saying them.
This step is important to improve cognitive flexibility which trains your brain to be open to change.
Think about activities that you like to do or that you would like to try and replace smoking with those activities.
Any activity that can make you laugh (time with friends, watching comedies, etc.
) will evoke a calming response because when we feel happy, we typically don't feel stressed out simultaneously.
Breaking any habit is no easy feat.
Cutting down or cutting out cigarettes is very challenging, and there aren't any one size fits all solutions.
Fortunately, there are a lot of tricks and tools that you can use to stop smoking.
Many habits that we have are paired habits.
If we do one thing, then we will do the other thing.
Think about the activities that you do when smoking and try to pair those activities with another activity other than smoking.
For instance, many people smoke while they drive.
Consider planning another activity to do while driving.
(It might not be driving for you, but you get the idea! It might be taking a walk instead of smoking on your break at work.
Create distance between you and the habit you are trying to break.
This approach could be used in a variety of different ways.
If you smoke first thing in the morning, consider leaving your cigarettes in a different room in your home.
Walking the extra couple of feet could help you decide not to smoke.
Leave your credit or debit cards at home and carry less emergency cash than a pack of cigarettes.
With this strategy, you are trying to create some distance between you the cigarettes so that you have to jump through extra hoops to get them.
Consider cutting back before cutting out.
If you are smoking 10 cigarettes a day, try smoking 9.
Then cut back to 8 and so on.
Having a plan to reduce harm may be more sustainable than cutting things out altogether.
You could also talk to your doctor about the safety of nicotine patches.
If you aren't already pregnant, this could be a great resource to help boost your success.
Focus on what you are gaining instead of what you are loosing.
You may be losing cigarettes, but you are gaining money, health, taste buds, an increased sense of smell, lung capacity, a healthy baby etc.
You could plan small rewards/ treats with the money you save from decreasing cigarette purchases.
I recommend making these purchases small and frequent to keep up the momentum rather than waiting for a big payout a couple of months down the road.
Good luck! Cutting out cigarettes will be good for you and your baby.
Hopefully you feel you have the time to follow this procedure.
For a week - log when you smoke - time, place and activity.
Plan on cutting back 10% for a week.
Cut out the easiest times.
Next change the times and and activities for 3 days - consider water or candy or gum if it is very tough.
Cut another 10% each week until you are done.
It is very good news that you realize the risks of smoking cigarettes while pregnant and are willing to stop.
Thinking about smoking is a typical and frequent reaction to being without the substance.
Be creative with what you know about yourself to distract you when this psychological urge comes up.
My suggestions are to imagine smoking if you find this would relieve the sense of wanting to smoke.
Or, do the opposite and remind yourself of all the good reasons to not smoke.
Also, since you're planning pregnancy then ask your partner for ideas on how to make the psychological feeling to want to smoke, feel less intense.
Another suggestion is that your partner is your texting buddy to stop smoking.
With AA groups, a sponsor is always available for the alcoholic who feels distress about the urge to drink.
Having a trusted and caring person to tell about your problem helps in many situations.
Maybe it will help you to stop smoking.
Good luck!
Quitting smoking can be difficult.
It's also true that there is part that is sometimes a physical need and a part that is often connected to emotions in some way.
From the way that you wrote this, it sounds like you may have been able to stop smoking physically, but still have cravings.
One thing you can do is talk with your primary care physician or OB/GYN about whether there is anything that you can take to help with the cravings.
Sometimes that can very helpful.
As far as the more emotional or mental piece, these things come to mind:Sometimes a crucial part is looking at the habit of smoking and seeing what else you can do to keep your mind and hands busy.
There are sometimes toys, like those available at Office Playground, that may help to keep you physically occupied.
There can also be changes or additions to your routine because I imagine that smoking took up a great deal of your time.
Maybe when you have the temptation to get up and go to have a cigarette, you could have several other things that you can get up and do instead.
The list is endless, but a few examples could be doing some physical exercise (with the permission of your doctor) just for a couple minutes because that could help with the craving as well, completing a puzzle, learning a new activity that requires using your hands (painting or knitting, perhaps).
Another piece of quitting smoking is often linked to anxiety or other emotional changes, perhaps irritability.
Depending on what it is that you may be feeling, learning other strategies to use can be helpful as well.
This can all be quite overwhelming and a very big life change.
I would recommend that if things do not become easier for you, consider talking with a therapist.
Then you could not only have some more strategies or ideas directly related to you, but you could have very direct support for what you are trying to do.
I give you a lot of credit!
It can be challenging to quite anything once we set our mind to it.
We often crave the things more that we know we can not or should not have.
With that being said I would encourage you to become aware of the chemical dependency part that cigarettes have on your brain and your body.
Then make yourself aware of the mental part the habit part.
Often times people will engage in smoking again just from the mere social aspect of it.
Make yourself aware of these and devise a plan of the things you will do instead of going out on smoke breaks, or the ritual of smoking in the car on on the back porch.
There are plenty of support groups out there to help with this as well.
Smoking cessation is a good resource.
Studies have proven that addiction affects the brain, there are many coping skills that addicts use to enable their addiction as well.
I would recommend that you speak with someone abut your relationship and your concerns.
Not only so you can have more clarity in the situation but we often tend to gravitate around or toward the same types of individuals.
Being more aware of your relationship will help you in the future when re-engaging in personal relationships.
Your friend needs to admit they have a problem.
If not no matter how many pills you take they will find a way to get more.
It is also a federal offense to take someone else's medication so if you did take it she could have you arrested.
In other instances it can be more dangerous to take medication away than slowly tapering off of them.
Like anything we put into our system our tolerance builds up and can effect us in different ways.
I would listen to her and discuss why she feels that she needs to be on the medications rather than playing bad cop in this situation.
Encourage her to get help and let her know you re there for her.
Your good intentions to help your friend stay clean, are very caring about her.
Unless your friend feels like stopping pills, taking them away will mean she finds them some place else.
The problem that anyone who is addicted to pills has, is that the person is psychologically and at least with xanax, physically addicted.
Taking pills has basically become a standard part of your friend's life.
Her problem is bigger than your ability to care.
If you haven't already done so, tell your friend directly about your opinion on the way she is using pills.
This is not a guarantee that she'll stop.
It isa way of you showing that you care about her.
Offering love and advice are the only things you can do for her.
Meanwhile, knowing she is hurting herself is probably hurting you.
Be sure to keep a sense of balance within yourself.
Offer your concern and know she is the one who must decide to stop using.
Hello! Thank you for your question.
I have a worked with many people who have become addicted to benzodiazepines, like Clonazepam.
It is a difficult road for people who are trying to become clean.
It is also a very difficult road for those who love the person and are trying to be supportive.
During those times, it is important to remember to take care of yourself, too.
As for taking your friend's pills, my concern would be the legal ramifications that you could face should you ever be caught with someone else's prescription medication, and especially these types of medications.
Our laws have become much more strict surrounding prescription drug sales and possession due to the increase in prescription drug abuse.
In addition, people who are in active addiction are likely to find some other means to get their drug, so it would do little to help the overall problem.
I don't know about your friend's family situation, but they may be a better route to take if you are concerned about your friend.
They may already be involved, but with your help you may be able to convince your friend to go to treatment willingly.
That is usually better.
In many states, there are also involuntary committal processes where a person's family may be able to convince a court to force the person into treatment.
This varies from state to state.
If your friend's family is not aware of this option, it may be something to look into.
It usually does take a relative, or a medical provider, to begin this process if it is available.
I hope this was helpful, and I wish you and your friend well.
It is challenging to see one's parents age and to cope with the new demands.
Your mom means a lot to you, and that is why you get easily frustrated.
I'm guessing that it is not that she is making you do work or that her expectations are non-important to you because if that were the case, you would not feel any guilt.
Accepting the new stage will help you cope with the changes.
Take a deep breath every time you feel frustrated and think of the good times you shared with your mom before her getting Alzheimer's.
Remember that your mom as she was is no longer and that she has reverted to a more delicate phase.
Also, schedule time for yourself and do things that help you relax.
Caretaking of an elderly parent can take a toll on you, and it is essential to incorporate self-care.
Finally, look for an Alzheimer's support group in your area that will help you connect with other people going through the same thing.
You are a good daughter, and your mom is lucky to have you in her life.
There is some great advice here that can really help, but you need some direct support.
Please find a caregiver support organization, a grief group and an individual therapist to help you during this trying time.
Your mom may not know what she is saying, or mean the awful things she says, but that doesn't make it hurt less.
Please take care of yourself and gt some help!
It's a good question man, and it must be terrible to see your mother in the state she's in.
Understand that Alzheimer's is due to under-performing function of kidneys, adrenals, and connective tissue strengtheners; all of which may be corrected with appropriate protocols that are inexpensive and generally simple to follow.
Imagine it like a flower that is not fed properly: A once, beautifully blossom flower APPEARS to be wilting, but it's life-force, spirit, and essence remain fully there and present.
And your mom hears you.
Let's clean her out, and see her smile return.
Make sure that you continue to treat your Mom with respect.
However, you also need to make sure that you have time away from her so that the stress of caring for her doesn't overwhelm you.
Balance is the key!
You have the answer already.
It is not your mom's fault.
Always remember that in spite of the disease, that human being you call mom is still there.
To cope with the feelings of frustration, anger, and guilt, practice accepting what is at this time.
Bring peace to these feelings and commit to move on to provide your mom love.
If you can, use mindfulness meditation to stay focus and calm your brain.
It is very difficult to move from being the child to be the care giver as in your situation.
Your mother's behavior as you describe it is a part of this disease.
As the disease progresses and she is less aware of the present including her surroundings and who she is speaking to.
Your response of anger and frustration are understandable.
It is also a part of the grief process as you see you mother slipping away mentally.
In the moment that you feel the anger step away, take some deep breathes and give yourself time to calm down.
Then return to whatever you were doing with her.
When you feel the frustration and anger building inside you have that be a trigger for you to remember a feeling that you want to experience instead of anger, frustration and guilt, for example understanding.
Then say that word to yourself as you take deep breaths.
But know that this is normal for caregivers/family members to have these reactions because it is also an emotional roller coaster for you.
Even though it is normal it is still good to try to respond differentyl and I commend you for doing that.
You also may want to look for a Caregiver Support group which will help you hear from others who also respond this way.
Let me first say that I am sorry you are going through this.
Yes, this is a symptom of an ugly disease, but that does not make experiencing it any easier.
If your mother was a sweet and understanding lady, I am sure this change in personality feels awful! On the other hand, if your relationship with her has always been difficult this can definitely open up old wounds and anger.
I have walked alongside many families as they care for a loved one with Alzheimer's disease.
It is unfortunately common to see mothers become cruel and mean toward their daughters.
In your case, it sounds like she is not directing her anger at just you.
While this may feel less personal, I am sure it makes finding supportive care for her very difficult.
I have several quick tips that might help you cope with this situation.
Stay tuned in to your level of anger and frustration.
If you can limit the amount of time you or anyone else is with your mother you can limit the caregiver burnout.
It is completely NORMAL to feel what you are feeling! However, these are the feelings that can lead to acting out and abuse when not acknowledged.
It doesn't sound like this is the case for you, but healthy boundaries and exercising respite will help with your feelings of guilt as well.
So, rotate care as much as possible.
If you find yourself arguing with your mom, STOP.
Don't worry, we have all been there before.
No need to feel guilty, but this only serves to agitate someone.
None of us enjoys being wrong and getting into an argument.
For those of us who are able to logically engage with others, sometimes this type of interaction is necessary.
Alzheimer's disease has robbed your mother of her logic, therefore arguing with her will only make matters worse.
Take care of yourself and seek support.
Support groups and counseling are a great way to tend to your needs during this long journey.
Caregiving can be overwhelming, lonely and heartbreaking.
You don't have to go through this alone.
From your initial description, I would say that your mother is "Maloriented".
In this stage of Alzheimer's individuals tend to be blaming and difficult to deal with.
They may often hide or throw things away and then blame family members for this.
In addition, if they are incontinent, they may blame a leaky roof or something else when they are wet.
You are correct that this is not her fault, but often for family members this does not make it any easier for you to cope.
I strongly suggest that you learn communication strategies that will help you to communicate with your mother in a way that lets her work through the difficulties associated with the disease.
I always suggest Validation techniques to family members.
In addition, you need to give yourself some kind attention and take time out from your circumstances as needed.
You need to be able to center yourself and come to acceptance that this is your mother's illness that is the problem, not her and certainly not you.
Yes, certainly your mom's difficulty in having meaningful conversations with people results from the Alzheimer's disease process which weakens her brain function.
Feeling a sense of guilt in relation to a parent, is pretty common for everyone.
This is because as little kids and babies, we had a strong reliance on a parent and believing every word they sad and wishing to follow each action they ask or demand, was for the benefit of our own survival.
One way of coping with your feeling of guilt is to examine it.
Ask what it is you're feeling guilty about?Chances are that your sense of guilt is less due to what you're currently saying or doing to help your mom.
Very likely, your guilt feeling is awakening the sense of obligation that you and all of us feel toward a parent simply because parents seem to have unquestionable power when we are very young.
After all, you're thoughtful enough to write a question, so chances are great that you're already actively involved in caring for your mom.
Good observation on your part, to distinguish that your feelings in relation to your mom are not necessarily connected to the way she handles her part of the relation toward you.
Has your mom usually ignored your opinions and wishes in relating to you?If prior to the onset of Alzheimer's, she never examined her way of relating to you, and if both of you have never had an open conversation about your sense of feeling hurt by her attitudes and manner with you, then the relationship between you and your mom will change in ways other than rational dialogue.
She may continue ignoring or overlooking your wishes because she's been stuck in this attitude for most of your life.
The good news for you about this is realizing that who you are and your way of relating to your mom, has very little to do with the way she relates to you.
This is a more profound disappointment because it shows that her disconnect from you has been for longer than when the Alzheimer's began.
You can however, feel a little more free knowing that you're not deserving of being ignored.
There are many conflicting emotions and tasks that arise when one becomes a caretaker for their parent.
Expressing positive emotions to her may help re-frame your thoughts and have a fresh perspective on the situation.
Additionally, Visual cues like pictures and notes can also be helpful for those who suffer from disorders like Alzheimer's and Dementia, as it offers a "Trigger" for memory, helping to ease the doors to communication.
Finding support in other family members, or a therapist familiar with elder care issues may be helpful as well.
If the only way the relationship you have with your mother feels "okay" is when she is the only one who makes decisions concerning your life, then this only seems ok.
In fact it is not okay for one person to be the authority for another person unless the one for whom this is being done, does not have their own ability to think for themselves.
Separating your own wishes and way of handling life matters, from your mother's point of view, may be difficult.
First, realize you need to get familiar with feeling at ease with the idea of deciding matters for yourself.
You'll need practice until you feel comfortable.
Unless, if you've been thinking through decisions you'd like to make and the idea of your mother's anger is the only point which stopped you, then you may almost instantly start living in a liberated way of running your own life.
Basically, it is right and fair for you to have the chance to live your life the way you feel is best.
Be prepared that your mother may disagree with you and that her disagreement is not a reason itself to not do what you believe is in your best interest.
Having someone who's outside the situation and, even more so, with knowledge and experience in human behavior and relationship dynamics such as a counselor can do wonders in helping us feel less alone in frustrating situations like the one you're currently stuck in with your mother.
A professional can also assist you in finding some assertiveness techniques, communication strategies, and coping skills to help you find your voice and stand your ground in a way that feels most authentic to you.
In a healthy parent-child dynamic, there comes a normal developmental shift when, as the child reaches each new stage of maturity and responsibility, the parent backs off to provide a more supportive role instead of directive role.
We call this "redefining relationships.
(We also do it with our friendships and colleagues here and there over time as needed).
It's absolutely vital.
Sounds like your mom may have missed that memo.
Like many parents, she may feel your behavior and choices is a direct reflection of her.
Or that her role as your mother allows her greater latitude than it should.
Or like many other people in general, that her way is the ONLY way.
Regardless, this is YOUR life.
And as far as we know, it's not a dress rehearsal.
You certainly don't want to wake up some 50 years from now regretful or resentful.
That being said, there are certainly ways to show her love and respect while doing what makes you happy.
I would encourage you to Google therapists near you whose bios resonate with you and what you're looking for and start on a the journey towards a new chapter of freedom and hopefully a deeper, more satisfying mother-daughter relationship for both of you.
It can be very difficult for children who have lost a parent to then see their other parent moving forward with anyone, so I understand how this change is even more upsetting to you.
And.
your father and your friend have clearly established a friendship and fallen in love.
Did you see this coming? I hope they didn't hide it from you.
If they did, maybe this is the issue? It would be a legitimate one.
But in the end, your father, and your friend, are adults who are free to fall in love with whomever they wish and hopefully they can count on the support of people who trust and love them.
Could there be blessings here you haven't seen yet? It seems you love this person who is like a sister; could it be a good thing that her place in your life is more permanent?Ask yourself these questions.
"What is the worst part of this?" "What do I fear losing?" "What do I fear at all?" "What is the evidence that this will happen?" The answers might surprise you.
Your children will follow your lead.
If you are supportive of their grandfather, they will follow suit.
Hopefully you can grieve the change, know that your mother would likely want both of them to be happy, and embrace the blessings that come with having this woman close to you in a new way.
I wish you the best.
How are you measuring whether or not your dad understands your wish?Your dad understanding your wish does not mean he will necessarily follow through with what you want.
Based on what you describe about your relationship to the woman in question, your discomfort with the idea of your dad marrying your friend, is reasonable.
Have the conversation with your dad that includes your viewpoint, and also ask him for his impression of your feelings.
Its even possible he already has considered your feelings and hasn't yet told you.
It is also possible that a conversation on the subject, as well as your dad following through with his decision to marry your best friend, may develop in a very positive way.
Part of the current uneasiness you feel may be from fear of how a change in circumstances and introducing new relationship dynamics might feel.
Given that the person who died was your mom, maybe your emotions are not yet ready seeing your dad with a replacement spouse.
Try to see the situation from the point of everyone, including yourself, who is involved in this major change.
Maybe having a family discussion about acceptance and readiness to accept a new partner for your dad, would open new empathy for all of these family members.
That's intense.
This person moving from a friend of yours to both a friend of yours and, in a sense, your step mom is a lot.
I wonder if you have let your dad know what's going through your mind with this and how it is affecting you.
I can imagine that could feel awkward and emotional.
Still, getting him to understand might be as simple as letting him know, in your words, how this feels from your view as well as what you wish.
It may not change the outcome (he may still marry her), but your thoughts will not go unsaid and opens it up for conversation.
Best luck!
It is understandable that it's very hard for you to hear daily complaints from your mother regarding the caregiving of your niece.
You cannot change your mother's feelings and responsibilities, which could create feelings of frustration and helplessness.
It must be equally hard for your mother to assume full responsibility for your niece at a time where your sister cannot take care of her.
This type of responsibility usually produces an enormous amount of stress and pressure because your mother and niece would both need to adapt to this new relationship, living situation, and the feeling of being "abandoned.
Not knowing the history of your relationship with your mother and how you respond to each other in times of need, it may be difficult to fight the right recommendation on how to deal with this situation.
Nonetheless, it is not easy to have to face daily complaints and you may have to set a healthy balance between empathy and boundary setting with your mother and some personal boundaries for yourself.
It is likely that your mother's "complaints" may be her desperate cry for help because she does not know how to cope with stress or how to ask for the right kind of support.
In this case, you could calmly and respectfully tell her the next time you hear her complain, "This must be very difficult for you because I hear the stress in your voice almost everyday.
It's very hard for me to hear you feeling so overwhelmed.
I feel helpless in this situation and would like to suggest that it might be helpful for you to seek some professional help and support to deal with such a big matter of importance.
When empathy and understanding is communicated, recipients are usually more open because they hear and feel the caring behind it and are more likely to seek additional help.
After sharing this message of empathy and encouragement to seek help, the next step is to protect yourself by explaining to your mother where your limits are so that she understands what she can expect from you.
This means that you can decide the kind of support or help you are willing to give your mother and/or niece that is within your ability to provide without feeling overwhelmed.
This could involve inviting them to dinner occasionally, taking them out to see a movie or inviting your niece over to give your mother respite.
You could then say to her if she complains again, "I cannot change the way you feel in this situation and I encourage you to seek professional advice about that but what I could do is .
(explain what you could do to help).
Then one day when life between you and mom feels calm, tell your mom that you aren't able to listen to her complaints about your sister.
The truth exists whether or not it is acknowledged.
Bu acknowledging what feels real and necessary in your life, you are helping your mom see what she may not like to see and what nevertheless is right in front of her.
There is no good reason or good to come of hiding your own truth about not wishing to continue listening to your mom complain.
This sounds stressful.
You mentioned that you want to learn how to avoid them.
I'm not sure whether you want to avoid them overall or if you would like to ask your mom to maybe only talk to you about it for a few minutes about your niece in each conversation that you have.
Maybe you can connect your mom with some support.
It sounds as if she has lost part of herself and/or is very stressed out and in talking with you about it because she trusts you enough for you to be someone she can speak openly, you are becoming stressed because of things that you cannot directly change.
This is the presumptive based on the amount of information that you posted, but it sounds like there is a bit of a circle of stress here.
I also wonder who you could talk with when you are stressed.
It may be helpful to see a local mental health professional to help redefine some boundaries so you can have the type of relationship with your mother that you want without necessarily feeling stressed out by it every day.
For how long has the arguing been occurring and does it relate to a specific incident or circumstance in your relationship?Arguing due to temporary stress and feeling lost or uncertain, is different than the two of you rarely agree on what foods to buy at the grocery store.
In both temporary or longer term arguing, ask yourself if the points being argued are core principles of yours or matters which you can accept in service to the benefits you feel from the marriage.
If your core principles are rejected, you have been arguing for an extended amount of time, and the value of the marriage doesn't outweigh this, then seriously consider if ending the relationship is a better option than to stay in it.
This is a fantastic question.
In one sentence, I would say the following:Recognize that while you and your partner probably have common interests and areas of commonality, you are separate people, each with different wants, wishes, and desires, if you consider a diagram of two overlapping circles, they may share perhaps a third of the circle with overlap to indicate commonality (could be more or less) and then there are parts of the circles that are not overlapping, indicating separate interests.
As for ways that may strengthen any relationship, even the great ones, this is what came to mind.
There are certainly more specific unique answers or elements for different people as far as the details, but here are some general ideas: Try to have at least 15 minutes a week where you are spending time together and not problem-solving.
Realize that listening to your partner does not mean that you are agreeing with them, it just means that you are saying that you hear where they are coming fromLearn to hold on to your own wants, wishes, and desires while also recognizing those of your partner.
Set boundaries for what is and isn't acceptable behavior during an argument or difficult discussion.
Discuss how having important discussions can be anxiety-producing and consider having an understanding that if one of you (or both of you) feels overwhelmed, you can take a timeout for a certain amount of time.
For example, you may say "okay, I'm feeling really stressed about this right now.
Let's discuss it in an hour.
And at that time, go back to the discussionConsider what your partner's top three or four complaints about you may be.
Check in with them and see how accurate you are.
If you see validity in their responses, consider whether or not you may want to make changesDiscover what makes your partner feel loved, valued, appreciated, or specialRelationships are always in progress and constantly changing.
Some anxiety around change is typical.
Being able to effectively discuss the anxiety and actually listen to one another without being defensive, name calling, finger-pointing, or asking each other to change is a true gift.
You may enjoy this quote:"Connection is the energy that is created between people when they feel seen, heard, and valued; when they can give and receive without judgment.
What a great question! Marriage (or any long-term committed romantic relationship) is never easy.
Ups & downs, doubts and fights are a part of it just the same as the wonderful, tender, blissful moments of connection.
Recognizing that hardships are normal and something to work through is a big part of the healthy attitude partners in lasting relationships share.
Some degree of conflict is not something to be scared of or a sign it's time to break up as long as all parties involved feel respected.
Expressing your needs and wants in a respectful, not accusing manner will increase the chances that your loved one will actually listen, empathize with your perspective and will be more open to finding solutions to your problems together.
Working as a team to find solutions to problems you encounter is a much better approach than trying to persuade your partner that you are right, while they are most certainly wrong.
Shutting your partner out or allowing resentment and contempt to creep into your relationships is definitely a warning sign that things may not be going the way you want anymore.
As long as you both agree that you want to be in that relationship and you have a growth mindset ("we will learn from this and grow together to be a better couple in the end"), the foundation of your partnership is strong.
What else? Making time for each other, whether it's being playful, having fun or enjoying intimate moments together is also an important part of ensuring a good balance of positive to negative experiences, that will only strenghten your bond.
Good luck!
A resource I think is helpful to learn more about "what makes a good marriage" and steps toward doing so is Dr.
John Gottman's book: "Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work.
Dr.
Gottman is a leader in this field and has done extensive studies with couples to determine what behaviors are key in making a marriage work and what behaviors could predict divorce.
I think this book might be a good start if you're wanting to learn more about how to have a long lasting relationship.
It's surprising how many folks talk too much on the subject;It's the same three things that make all relationships work: Honesty, Trust, Respect.
Thank you for your question.
A good Marriage is one that takes hard work and commitment.
Being in a good marriage does not always mean good times because let's face it; we are dealing with 2 unique individuals with differences.
A good spouse or partner knows to be patient and accepting.
Knowing each other's strengths and imperfections and working with them to lift each other is how you strengthen your love for one another.
A good spouse sacrifices their needs to see the other person happy.
Don't get me wrong, that also means that it is important to have alone time to re-charge and re-focus our purpose in the marriage.
In all, there is not a magic recipe for a successful marriage, but with time, work and purpose one can have a happy one.
In truth, no one really has the answer to your question, otherwise wouldn't we all have a "good" marriage? Also, what even is a "good marriage?" What is it that YOU want from a marriage, a relationship, a partner, and what your other-half also wants for themselves, is going to be what defines all of this, because every relationship is different.
And in answering that "what YOU want" question, you might actually stumble upon what would make for a healthy relationship: vulnerability.
You will have to be vulnerable to be able to explore what you really want, and listen to what your partner really wants, as that kind of processing can be uncomfortable.
But, with vulnerability comes intimacy, and in most opinions, there is much of a relationship if there isn't much intimacy.
In my mind, a healthy marriage has two participants, meaning both people participate equally in the intimate connection of marriage.
An unequal participation comes in many forms, such as one person checking out of conversations when it becomes emotional, or speaking over and for each other in these conversations.
Couples should strive for engagement and support, but doing it in a way that works for each person individually.
I hope this helps.
I appreciate your question.
The answer of what makes a "good marriage" are as varied as there are marriages.
Basically, similarity, like mindedness in beliefs and values, makes a good marriage.
The best chance of getting along with someone on a longterm basis is when two people see life and the world in similar ways.
Even though "opposites attract" this is a short lived dynamic which breaks apart when there aren't enough similarities in common between the partners.
This answer varies based on you relationship.
However, I do believe their are some basic fundamental areas that are beneficial for a healthy marriage: Effective, Communication, Trust, Love/Passion, Loyalty, Unconditional Positive Regard.
Everyone has their favorite qualities they feel best fit a marriage.
However, these are what I think are great starting points.
Hi Prattville, I'm sorry this is happening to you.
You need support right now, and yes, you need answers.
She is in denial and is trying to hide the truth, to protect herself.
This is a natural behaviour.
You don't indicate whether she wants the marriage, or is planning to leave.
Which way you go from here depends in part on the answer to that question.
If she wants the marriage, you certainly have the right to say "I need answers to all my questions".
Giving you the information she needs has to be (if she wants the marriage) more important than protecting herself.
I would support your right to advocate for all the information you need in order to feel secure or make decisions.
She may fear that the truth will turn you away.
If you want to, you can reassure her that you want the marriage no matter what the truth is.
If the marriage is to survive, it needs openness.
If, on the other hand, she's planning to end the marriage, then you might want to resign yourself to the fact that you may never get the information you seek.
You are better off, in that case, seeking support from friends and family rather than beating on a closed door.
Your wife has some decisions to make.
Try to give her a bit of time to make them.
You can patiently say "I know this thing is happening.
Talk to me so we can deal with it together.
I want to move forward but I need the truth.
Only time (and a good therapist, if she is willing and wants the marriage) will tell which way this one will go.
Individually, you can seek professional help as well.
Thanks for your question.
Communication is essential between couples and often times gets neglected in relationships.
Working with your husband to help him become a better listener and consequently, a better communicator is going to take some work from your part.
You have to calmly be able to express to him your concern and how it affects you.
Very important is that you do it in a loving and non-threatening way.
Therefore, the time to have this discussion is not when you are frustrated or need to vent to someone about something important.
Focus the discussion on how both of you could benefit from having more meaningful conversations where both parties are being heard and how it is important to you that he hears you just like it is crucial for him to be heard.
There is a lot of useful information online about how to be a good listener or therapist in your area that can help you.
Be patient and genuine, and he will come around.
Thanks for reaching out.
This is a great question.
Communication is definitely a 2-way street.
One person cannot participate in a discussion.
It takes a talker and a listener.
Furthermore, communication will breakdown if each party is only focusing on his or her agenda and is not open to what the other person is saying.
since I can't ask you questions about what is going on, I am going to make a guess at one situation that comes up a lot when I work with couples.
One person focuses more on solving the issue, than listening to their partner.
This can be frustrating for the partner who wants to just be "heard.
I understand that you are working really hard to listen to him and he might not be putting as much effort into listening to you.
That can be really frustrating and difficult and I want to acknowledge you for wanting to improve your relationship.
One of the best strategies to gettting heard, is actually to BE A GOOD LISTENER to someone else.
I know you are probably already a good listener and for you to work on listening skills may seem counterintuitive, right? You want to get heard and now you are the one doing the listening.
But this can really create more effective communication if you invest time working on doing some active listening in your relationship because then you get to model those skills for your husband and allow him to see what it feels like to be listened to and then you can even teach him some of those skills.
In other words, you practice specific techniques that you can use and then teach later on.
Here are some skills for you to use consciously and then you can teach:Pay attention and use your body language to convey that you are in the conversation.
No texting or distractions.
Lean in.
Focus.
Listen for content and for emotion.
Clarify what you don't understand.
Try to understand the person's underlying emotions.
Don't rush to judgement or to changing what is going on with the person.
Sit in a place where you are really curious and want to understand what is going on.
Encourage the other person to continue speaking, Nod and vocalize that you hear what they are saying.
Ask questions to get to understand the other person's point of view.
I believe when we can model these kinds of listening skills, and the other person feels heard, they will be more likely to listen to us.
If you don't find that this doesn't spill over in that way, then have a discussion about what you are practicing and that you are learning these skills to be a better listener so you can understand him better.
Then explain how it might be helpful if you both tried it.
If there is push back from him, set up a trial period to just try the skill, perhaps for 2 weeks and see if it helps.
If communication is really breaking down, then it might be time to work with a counselor who can help with these skills.
Best of luck to you!
It's hard when you feel as if you're the only one that's taking the time to listen to your spouse.
But, I would look at this as an opportunity to see if you can become aware of what exactly is happening between you, when you try and talk with your husband.
Sometimes, it can be in the way dialogue is approached.
I would suggest paying attention to the way you begin dialogue with your husband.
See if blame and criticism are present.
When blame and criticism are included, bids for connection, can quickly go off track.
This can sometimes start off with something like: "why don't you.
"you aren't.
"you don't.
Partners can quickly go into defensive mode if they feel they are being attacked and sometimes starting off like this can feel like an attack.
Also, become aware of the time of day or evening when you approach your husband.
Sometimes, this can make a big difference for couples as far as when they can truly be present for one another.
If you find this pattern continues, you might consider seeking professional help through couples therapy.
A trained couples therapist can help you both understand more about what's happening between you.
Does your husband want to listen to you?Find this out by asking him the question!This way you know whether the goal you'd like to reach is even possible.
Some partners prefer that one person is the rule maker or the only one who is entitled to talk about themselves.
If your husband tells you he wants to listen to you, or even that he does listen to you, then you can explain in detail the way you define "listening", which may be very different than his definition.
Basically, no one can directly change someone into being more openminded.
What is possible is to tell him your wishes, your willingness to be patient while he develops the habit of listening to you and point out that a relationship is more fulfilling when both partners feel they are receiving from the other one.
Unfortunately you can't directly change another person's behavior.
However, you can give him feedback on how his not listening impacts you.
The best way to provide feedback is in 3 parts.
The first part is telling him the emotion you are experiencing when he doesn't listen, such as hurt, sad, and unloved.
I would stay away from feelings such as frustrated, angry and irritated and use a more vulnerable emotion.
The second part is what he does specifically to make you feel that way, be specific! Example: when I get home and tell you about my day and you don't look away from the tv.
Be objective as possible when you describe his behavior.
And the last part is the most important, tell him what you want him to do, and again be specific! Example: I would rather you turn off the tv, give me eye contact and reassure me about my day.
Here is an example with all 3 parts together: I feel hurt when you don't say anything to me when I tell you about my fight with my friend, I want you to hug me and tell me you understand how I feel.
Hope that helps!!
Thanks for writing.
There are many different house of things that may be helpful here.
I can give you some general ideas, but if some of these things don't get you to where you would like to go, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples:Remember that you can only guarantee change in yourself.
You can ask him to make changes, but you can't control whether he does or not.
You can control your reactions and what you do about your own thoughts, feelings, and actions in the relationship.
If you're going to talk about something important or you really want him to listen, first ask whether this is a good time.
Try to talk to him without blaming, finger-pointing, or asking him to change (this can be difficult, but it also opens a lot of doors for effective discussions).
Be mindful of your packaging.
By that, I mean that you may have a very important message that you're trying to get across.
If you able to say it in a way that is clear and wrapped in such a way that he can hear what you're actually saying, that is helpful.
If you are talking in ways that are angry, or as I sometimes say, wrapped in spikes, that can be difficult to hear and receive.
Rather than hearing what you're actually trying to get across, he may just hear the fact that you are angry.
If your husband is able to listen to you and/or restate what you are saying and get it right or close to right, let him know what that feels like to you and how important it is.
If you're asking questions, try to avoid "why" question and use "what makes, how, when, where, who" instead.
Questions starting with "why" can not only be difficult to answer, but can also trigger a lot of emotions that some people are not ready to deal with right away.
Also, keep in mind that listening and being able to reflect what you are saying does not imply agreement.
This may be something that would be good to discuss with your husband just because he is hearing what you're saying doesn't mean that he's agreeing with you.
Lastly, but importantly, some people really don't know how to listen effectively.
There are people who just are not taught to do that until much later in their lives.
Sometimes listening to someone can actually be very vulnerability-producing.
It may be helpful to ask your husband if he knows what makes him struggle with being able to listen if you notice that he's really struggling.
Have the two of you ever discussed how you feel? I know given the nature of your question that's probably not likely, but I'm going to suggest it any way.
He needs to understand that how you feel about this issue equates to not being as happy in the relationship as you could be or he thinks you are.
So start there, that may be more of an attention getter than "you never listen to me" yes I do etc.
Direct opener: I'm not as happy in this relationship as I think we both deserve.
Pause, and if you won't let me talk about it then it's only going to get worse.
Then explain you don't feel listened to, you try to be a good listener but you don't feel you are getting the same in return.
If he interrupts put your hand up in the sign of a stop, then say please just let me finish.
You are right to raise this subject with him because a good marriage can't exist in a communication vacuum.
In fairness to him, he needs to understand the seriousness of your concern and have a chance to do better.
If he refuses, tell him you want to seek couples counseling then do it, with him or without him.
One key factor to consider is, are you able to repair after your arguments? It seems from your question that repair is lacking after any disagreement or argument.
When couples are able to repair after an argument, they have an opportunity to learn more about each other's needs moving forward.
I'm also curious if you're having the same type of arguments over and over? If you're stuck in a particular pattern, and can start recognizing what happens between you when this pattern happens, then you can start to name it.
Once you name it, then you can take a break to cool off and come back to each after your nervous system has had a chance to calm down (about 30 minutes).
The key here though is to make sure you have a plan in place - when things are good between you - an agreement between you that when you both start to get escalated, you'll name it or have an agreed upon code word to signal you don't want to continue this cycle, and then agree to cool off and come back together at a later time.
That way, when this is enacted during an argument, nobody feels abandoned during the cool off time.
Rather, both partners know they will return at a time when they can truly hear each other and hear their needs.
At the begin g of marriages, we expect to be living on an eternal honeymoon, but the reality can be different.
This is a process of adaptation, even if you had known your better half for a long time, during the first months and years of marriage you go through a process of settling in your new roles and confront new challenges together that as you resolve become new rules and agreements.
Yes, you can work this issues by practicing assertive communication, being clear with each other about what is the problem, how you feel about it and how would you like to resolve it.
Learn to close arguments with resolutions, and reminding that you care about each other, that's why you choose to be together.
Discuss your roles and expectations, this is normally done over a marriage preparation class, is never too late to sit down a talk about what you want and look for in a husband/wife and clarify your roles and rules.
Find couples therapist who mediates communication and helps both of to you learn assertive communication skills and conflict resolution.
There are plenty of online providers within the mental health field that would me more than happy to speak with you immediately.
Many of them provide treatment on a sliding scale fee.
I would google online mental health treatment providers and that should lead you to a list of providers that can help you.
Depending on your area and location, there may be therapists who provide services on a sliding scale.
Additionally, churches will often times offer counseling for free or for a small fee.
I suggest doing a simple Google search and contact therapists in your area.
It never hurts to ask for a reduced fee and even if he or she is unable to provide the service, they may be able to refer you to someone who can.
Eating disorders usually result from a sense of insecurity about who the person is, whether they are good enough compared with anyone else, and whether the way they person lives is effective.
If you have a style you're already happy with to reflect on these sorts of topics, keep following your own logic with the aim to free yourself, which usually takes place gradually, from these sort of self-doubts.
The other approach would be to find an unperson or an online discussion group where you'd be able to offer and receive the support from other people who live with a similar problem.
Good luck in your studies!
Hello,This question describes a very typical setup of what is called the Binge, Repent, Repeat cycle.
This means that typically after you binge, you experience emotions as you described "shame and disappointment" and then because of these emotions you "repent" and then ultimately end up bingeing again.
There are many coping mechanisms for binge eating and one of the best is actually attempting to NORMALIZE eating.
Meaning you need to attempt to eat normally, eating appropriately portioned meals 3 times a day, with snacks in between.
IF you binge, then it may be helpful to remind yourself that when you attempt to compensate for your bingeing behaviors, and you end up feeling restricted from over exercising or undereating, then this actually leads to a binge again.
Thus, reverting you back to the cycle.
If you binge, it will be helpful to try and get back on a normal schedule of eating instead of trying to compensate for the binge.
Although it may feel counterproductive, getting back on a normal eating schedule will prevent you from entering into the restrictive cycle.
It can also be helpful to remind yourself that the binge has already occurred, it is in the past and the goal is to move forward without focusing on the past.
Focus on what you can do differently next time.
What emotions or situations led up to the binge? What can you to do prevent or change the circumstances that led to the binge, or the way that you handled the situation.
Lastly, if you're struggling with "normalizing" eating, it can be helpful to work with a professional that can provide counseling and coaching to help you learn how to eating normally, mindfully and without feeling the guilt and other harmful emotions sometimes associated with disordered eating.
In dealing with an eating disorder you are far from alone.
It is more common than you might think and tied to so many variables that it is easy for an individual to become overwhelmed in trying to navigate the influences of such variables.
I have been working with individuals dealing with such challenges since 1998 and have found over the years that behavioral analysis is highly effective in helping you begin to isolate, understand and then be able to address many of these variable impacting your behavioral and cognitive choices.
Consider finding someone trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy (DBT).
There is a large body of evidence supporting the use of this approach to alleviating many of the aspects you identified in your post as well of a wide variety of tools that you can choose from and utilize that are able to practiced and assimilated into your daily tool box of coping mechanisms that end up becoming new behaviors and ways of thinking about issues that become automatic, the best possible outcome you can hope for if you want the solution to be sustainable.
The fact that you are aware of the issue and what causes it is a step in the right direction.
You can absolutely break the cycle but it takes a lot of effort.
Much like growing a physical muscle, developing coping mechanisms must be practiced (exercised) in order to gain strength.
Find healthy activities that you like to do that can help you deal with stress.
It appears that you are already going to the gym which is awesome; you want this to be a healthy experience not one done out of guilt.
Is it possible for you to incorporate food items that are healthy for you Remember any changes you make must be practiced and developed over time.
You should seek professional help to assist you with getting to the root cause of your emotional connection to food.
Normally these issues date back to childhood experiences however this is a generalization and I have little information to go on.
Above all else BE KIND TO YOURSELF! Shame is counterproductive.
If you want something to grow you give it love and attention.
I believe that for results that last, the best approach is to understand why someone feels like doing a certain behavior.
Coping mechanisms" are superficial instruction that people usually give up on when feeling extreme pressure from the problem behaviors.
Take the slower road of understanding why you would deprive yourself of enjoying food.
Also, if you consider the binging as a mistake of some kind, reflect on why doing something less than ideal, deserves harsh criticism and not tolerance and acceptance that people mess up occasionally.
I'm glad you know that there are better ways of treating yourself.
This is a valuable awareness of realizing you deserve patience and respect, not humiliation and severe criticism when you are lost as to best ways of self-care.
Hello! I'm so glad you decided to write in today.
This is such a great question and I'm sure many others will relate to exactly what you're describing.
There are a few different ways we can look at in understanding your concern.
First, I think it's important to understand food is just food.
Food is meant to nourish our bodies, provide us with energy and yes, sometimes reserved for special occasions and celebrations.
But in many cultures, we place a LOT of emphasis on food.
We have food at every gathering and every celebration.
What's more people have come to almost EXPECT food to be present at any and every get-together.
And if it's not? Well, then forget about it! I see this time and time again with my clients.
Donuts appear in the office, and it's almost like donuts have never been there before! Must eat one (or two)!However, we need to remind ourselves that this occurrence, or similar ones, will not be the last time we can enjoy this particular food.
It is likely the office donuts have happened before, and they will be there again on another day.
During these moments, I like to have my clients employ a Stop-and-Think method.
Stop-and-Think about your goals before you eat.
Is this donut getting you where you want to be? Also, I have my clients ask themselves how special is this donut? If the donut really is a special donut (from the best bakery in town and you've never been there before) then now might be a time to have the donut.
But if not, it would be wise to pass and wait until that "special" donut.
Another aspect we need to remember about food, is to think about what we're getting from overindulging or overeating.
Are you trying to drown out other emotions? Are you trying to feel better and the food gives you that feeling for a brief moment? What ELSE is going on? This can be determined by utilizing what we describe as a Thought Record.
A Thought Record involves tracking and identifying thoughts and feelings associated with food triggers.
By targeting the emotions, we can then determine where they're coming from, as well as how to decipher them.
A therapist can also help you with understanding your emotions related to food and will be helpful in assisting you with the Thought Record.
The most important thing to remember is that "food addiction" can be a real problem for a lot of people.
If food is taking over your life and you are preoccupied and overwhelmed with knowing where to start, please seek out help.
Binge eating is the most common eating disorder and impacts the lives of thousands.
I would recommend removing yourself from the environment you are in after you have finished eating.
A simple walk around the block, calling up a friend and going to visit, or even going to another room in the house can help.
If you find that you truly have no self control over food, I recommend attending Overeaters Anonymous; a 12 step group for those with compulsive issues related to food.
I hope this helps.
Since you've decided to be with the boy who already showed you his interest, then why not simply tell him you decided to accept his invitation to be together?Probably your first concern about hesitating to accept this boy into your life due to the way you imagine your family may react if you do, is the more complex matter to solve.
Forming a relationship does bring up our values and the way these are different or similar to our own.
At the same time, we already have values which are rooted in those from the family in which we grew up.
Your dilemma of wanting to be with this boy shows there is a clash between your values as an individual, including your choice of partner, and the way your family understands the values which support being part of a couple.
Stay true to what you feel, whether this comes from your family or the way you currently are evolving.
This will guarantee that your new relationship will be built on the values and person you truly are.
Maybe the reason is not having confidence in the love you give to yourself.
Possibly you consider the quality of your self-love as inferior to love someone else gives you.
The best way to push through to your own self-comfort and acceptance is to be aware of this tendency so you can remind yourself to practice appreciating the unique love you give to yourself.
There could be many reasons but often people feel validated when they are in a relationship, the need to be in a relationship can be related to a belief of unlovability which often stems from our childhood.
The relationship sort of soothes this temporarily and the others interest or desire helps counteract the ingrained belief.
There are many questions that may help understand why, how was your relationship with your mother.
How was your childhood etc.
Many people describe having a hole or void they try and fill with material things or people but it only is a temporary fix which usually drives the person to the next relationship, or object in hopes it will be fulfilling but it never is because fulfillment is work we need to do ourselves.
This journey involves finding acceptance and love for ourselves.
Once we have that we don't need to look elsewhere for fulfillment.
There are a lot of ways to look at this.
It sounds as if there is a part of you that is looking for support.
I wonder what it is that you feel when you're not in a relationship?Because of the way you asked the question, I'm getting the impression that you are referring to romantic relationships.
I wonder if you have close friendships that could form a network to help with this when you are not romantically involved with someone.
Even when you are in a relationship with a romantic partner, having friends is still an important element.
I wonder if you could also notice what changes for you inside of yourself (as far as emotions) when you move from not being in a relationship to being in one.
Perhaps you could take a look at what you value about yourself.
In general, it is natural for people to want to be in relationships with others (in this case, relationship has many meanings and degrees).
Most of us enjoy sharing elements of our days, thoughts, feelings, etc.
with someone else who we trust and care about also hoping they care about us in return.
It is not the case of being right or wrong, in my view.
If you are asking, I believe you truly care for your boyfriend.
It seems like he is having difficulties in establishing trust in this relationship.
The ideal would be to come closer to his upsetness and to show him that you are there for him.
I hope all goes well.
Rossana Mag.
The most important thing to ask yourself here is, "how did this action affect my relationship, and is it worth the consequences?" Regardless of your intentions in this action, your boyfriend is uncomfortable with this type of behavior.
From here, we can objectively decide if spending time with your previous partner (because that is likely what your boyfriend sees them as) is worth harming the relationship you currently have.
It is very rare that a person would be comfortable with their partner spending more than a very little amount of time with their exes.
Many times, it just gives the wrong impressions.
It is very possible that your partner may believe that since you spend so much time with them, that they are still a contender for the most intimate relationship you have to offer, and truth be told, they kind of are.
The best intimate relationships, are friendships first and foremost.
It is also a good thing to consider what you are getting out of the relationship with your ex that you are not getting out of the relationship with your current boyfriend.
If you go to this person for emotional support before your boyfriend, then it is very likely you're involved in some "emotional infidelity".
When we turn to others instead of our partner, it is as if we "ran into another person's arms" instead of theirs.
No matter who you are, that hurts.
Depends on your definition of "wrong" on this one.
Was it objectively wrong to spend the weekend with a good friend, who also happens to be an ex? Probably not.
But, it upset your current boyfriend, and he is entitled to his feelings if you are in a relationship with him.
He may be out of line if he assumes that anything happened between you and your ex that would compromise the relationship, however your boyfriend being upset might also mean that he wanted to spend that kind of weekend with you and did not get to do that.
Long story short, it might help your relationship to understand more, and be curious, not judge-y, around what is upsetting for him.
Perhaps having empathy for his experience of the behavior could help him to feel more secure with you having relationships with your ex(es).
While you can't be responsible for your boyfriend's feelings, relationships do come with expectations.
Both people in a relationship bring their own expectations into it.
These expectations are usually unspoken, but result in conflict as you are experiencing here! Your boyfriend expects you not to spend the weekend with this guy.
He may expect you not to spend the weekend with any guy at all.
He may expect you to spend every single weekend with him! You'll have to decide if his expectations are ones you can live with.
Relationships do require some compromise out of concern for our partner, but you get to choose how much you compromise.
We get upset about things that make us feel insecure.
You spending the weekend with an ex makes your boyfriend feel insecure.
That doesn't mean you did anything wrong.
It just means that you have to decide if it's more important for you to maintain your freedom to spend weekends with whomever you wish, or to help your boyfriend feel secure in your relationship.
Good luck! .
Hello.
There are a number of factors playing into this situation.
A former romantic partner coming back onto the scene during a current relationship; you spending alone time (and spending the night) with that former partner; and the uneasy feelings experienced by your current partner (boyfriend).
Now those are the ones you have openly expressed.
There are very likely other issues that prompted this behavior on your part.
You ask if you were wrong.
It is not a question I will be able to answer, because it is not one I am meant to answer.
It is up to you to find that truth.
Now, if you are feeling guilty, was it because of some sexual engagement occurred when you spent the night? If so, you might want to look at why that happened.
Do you feel secure in your current relationship? Is this the relationship you want, or do you want to be with the former boyfriend?Important questions, but ones you need to ask and answer.
Odds are, there is something that triggered this event to occur and it becomes a focal point in discovering any unexplored discomfort or other issues with your current boyfriend.
Seeking relationship counseling can be effective in sorting this out, so be open to that possibility to help you clarify your thoughts and feelings.
Best of luck to you.
Ideally you and your boyfriend will reach a balance point where you and your boyfriend are each happy with the level of involvement you have with your former boyfriend.
Start w a discussion with your current boyfriend as to what specifically he doesn't like about your friendship with your former boyfriend.
It is possible that you can answer his concerns as well he can find out from you more as to what the friendship is all about.
As a therapist, I've never seen a former romantic relationship become only a friendship.
As sincere as you may be in your intention to only keep the friendship with the former relationship partner, if your former boyfriend secretly has romantic feelings for you, then at best, you've got an unclear friendship with this person.
The obvious possibility is to socialize together with your current boyfriend and your former one.
If neither guy would go for this, then this would show there is an undercurrent of competition for your romantic attention.
Basically make your romantic partner's feelings and your own, the major considerations and discuss from this perspective.
This can be a very complicated situation.
The boundaries of relationship include the rules to follow in the relationship.
It is important to follow the rules of your relationship in regards to each person being able to spend time with exes.
If you and your boyfriend agree upon a rule about spending time with exes, then there should be no problem.
Thank you for submitting this question.
I think this type of situation can be common for many couples struggling with how to keep friendships with past relationships while being in a new relationship.
For me, more information is needed here.
but given the information provided, the way I interpret the question is.
I'm assuming your boyfriend didn't know you were going to spend the weekend with your good friend? Working off of this assumption, I would suggest beginning an open and honest dialogue with your boyfriend about what specifically upset him? And to talk about your point of view regarding spending the weekend with him.
I would also suggest talking about how you both envision your relationship when it comes to spending time with others.
If you feel like you can't have this conversation without it going off track, please consider seeing a couples therapist.
They can help you begin these important conversations that can help shape and develop the relationship you and your boyfriend long for.
That is a difficult situation and there is no right or wrong.
You both need to discuss it and come up with a solution that works for the both of you.
You want to spend time with your friend but your boyfriend may feel betrayed by you spending quality time with another man you have been intimate with.
There may be a way for you both to get your needs met.
Maybe you only spend short periods of time with your friend, not a whole weekend.
Or you check in with your boyfriend periodically when you see your friend.
It really depends on the two of you.
If it becomes too difficult, you may need a neutral party to help you establish appropriate boundaries around this issue.
Good luck!
It's completely understandable that you would have male friends and that you would want to spend time with them.
When you cross over from friends to a relationship, it does change things.
Some people are very easy going and wouldn't feel threatened by what you did Others would be upset.
If your boyfriend is upset by you spending time with this male friend, then you need to talk about it.
Each of you needs to express your feelings about the situation and listen to the other with patience and respect.
Then you can make a decision on what is best for you and your relationship.
Maybe he wouldn't be upset if you saw this friend while you were with your boyfriend.
Or maybe your boyfriend would feel better if he got to know this person better and could trust him.
Most likely you can come up with a situation that will make both of you comfortable going forward.
You didn't do anything "wrong" because it doesn't sound like you intended to hurt your boyfriend.
But if you really care about your boyfriend, then you probably care about making him upset.
Instead of looking at this issue as a problem, try to look at it as an opportunity to connect.
If you can both listen to each other and understand each other, your relationship can become even closer.
Two paths are possible.
You're not overreacting and instead are genuinely sensing that something feels unsettled within your girlfriend.
You are overreacting because you have difficulty accepting how safe and loving your relationship is with this person.
The only way to find out is to start conversations with your girlfriend on how you feel.
This will allow new light to open an answer as to the truth.
Once you know what truly is going on between the two of you, your self-trust naturally will grow stronger.
Self-trust will give you an accurate read of what and whom you are able to safely trust.
Remember that all relationships center around 3 simple values: Honesty, Trust, and Respect.
in that order, too.
If you are unable to trust, then you are fundamentally dishonest about something in yourself; Moreover, whatever you do not honestly experience, you do not honestly express out to another; To be honest with oneself is where most people fall down.
and, when you do fall down, pick yourself up.
and get back on the horse.
What's most important is that you recognize that what you've been doing is off base - that what you've been feeling is "overreacting," that you have "insecurities," and you suspect your actions and reactions are connected to your own past and not to the current situation or to your partner.
That's an excellent first step because without recognizing these things about yourself, it's unlikely that you would change.
That said, you sound as if you are really ready to start some therapy to work on your own personal growth.
not because there is something "wrong" with you, but because you're ready to learn more about yourself and make some creative changes in your behavior.
Yes, there are lots of self-help books and courses, but we humans often make the most progress when we have support in real-time from another human being who can sit with us, point out our blind spots, and teach us some skills that are hard to learn on our own.
I can only imagine how hard that must have been to hear.
On one hand, most of us would say we want our partners to always be honest with us, but on the other disclosures like this can lead to feelings of worry and inadequacy if we're not careful.
So let me first of all say that it is very normal for human beings, even very committed and happy partners to have moments where they notice an attraction for someone else.
Quite honestly, the brain can't help it.
It sees something good looking and it pays attention.
And when we pay attention to something good, our brains send out neurochemicals associated with that happy thought.
and we get a rush of what your girlfriend is labeling "a crush.
The difficulty here is deciphering whether she was just attempting to honor her commitment to you by sharing this feeling OR if she is continuing to feed those feelings.
I would encourage you to thank her for being honest if you haven't already, and ask her to further describe the nature of these feelings and what she'd like to do from here.
As weird as it is to say, at the end of the day, what helps the most is typically reassuring yourself that you WILL be okay not matter what! That it is worth it to invest in your relationship and give it your all and if someday, god forbid, this woman chooses to walk away, then she is not the one.
Will it hurt? Of course.
But is it the end? Hell no! There are 7.
5 billion people on the planet and I firmly believe statistically speaking alone, there are at least several hundred thousand that could be AMAZING partners for you.
Hi! It sounds like you are stuck in a difficult place.
You do not want to appear to jealous and yet, it's hard not to be, when you hear about "the crush".
It's only natural to feel a little insecure and you're doing a great job by asking how to cope better.
First of all, long-distance relationships are very hard.
Is this situation likely to continue for a long period of time? The old adage that "absence makes the heart grow fonder" simply isn't true.
It requires a lot of work to keep the fire burning.
Are you, guys, talking to each other a lot? Visiting each other relatively often? Making common plans for those visits or your future together? Do you manage to have fun together, despite the distance.
All of the above are good ways to ensure that your bond stays strong and there will be less space left for interest in other people.
Based on the fact that your girlfriend told you about the crush t I would guess that she thinks it's innocent enough - nothing too threatening.
Try to talk to her about your feelings and brainstorm together ways you can increase your intimacy, which will likely improve your sense of security in the relationship but also help her get over the crush.
Long distance relationships are very difficult to maintain, not just for the lack of communication, but also because of the lack of intimacy that comes along with it.
Even if you have spectacular communication while in a long-distance relationship, it is difficult to maintain intimacy because you are lacking in the physical contact aspect of intimacy.
Here, we are not talking about sex, but about the emotional connection that happens along with physical contact.
It is also hard to have shared experiences when the two of you are in separate places.
These are the challenges that you face, but there are some ways to improve your odds.
The first thing to remember here is that dating is all about finding a person that you want to eventually dedicate your time, resources, and self to.
If either of you finds that the relationship is one that you are not necessarily committed to, it is better to find out and have the opportunity to date others before a commitment is made.
The second thing to remember is that open communication is a good sign in a relationship.
That being said, I do not believe that sharing details about your "crushes" is the best thing for a relationship.
Instead, I would recommend working on improving the relationship as best you can.
It is a wonderful thing when we can feel that we have given our best efforts on something, especially something as important as the act of loving.
Here are a couple things that you can do to improve even a long-distance relationship.
While on the phone or video chat, try asking each other some of these questions so that you can build a deeper knowledge of one another.
Some may seem silly, but they help you know the other person more intimately.
It is also helpful to make sure that you are having regular communication with each other.
Some situations make it very difficult to communicate, but if at all possible, daily communication via phone or video chat would be best.
Even if it is just for 30 minutes a day, really dedicate your time and attention to each other during those calls.
Next, it can be helpful to know each other's love languages so you can show each other how much you really care.
Take the assessment for the 5 Love Languages and talk about the results together.
Attraction to other people is completely normal and involves biological processes.
Intimacy, on the other hand, creates real connection and dedication to each other.
Learn about each other, spend time together, and you will create intimacy.
Thanks for writing in.
Several things come to mind:I don't know how you are communicating, but there is a great deal of difference between communicating through videoconferencing compared to text message when discussing subjects like this.
Being able to hear and/or see each other will help you to be able to gauge a lot of the emotions connected to what is going on.
Are you in a place where you can ask your girlfriend questions about this crush and actually listen to her answers? If you can listen non-defensively and ask questions about what is actually going on (kind of like an investigative reporter might), you are likely to hear about her experience, thoughts, feelings, etc.
, so you can actually see what the crush is like for her and how you want to react to that.
Then you could see if she is willing to listen to your questions and answer them for you.
Another tip: Find out when is a good time to have this conversation.
If you are talking to your girlfriend after she just worked a 10 hour shift and she is frustrated about that, it is likely that the emotion will transfer to the conversation that you are having even though it doesn't have anything to do with that.
Find a way to keep yourself grounded and centered during the conversation.
Notice your feet on the floor or your hips in the chair.
Mindfully play with an object or something like a paperclip or a pen.
Doing this mindfully (by being aware of your senses) will help you to not feel so overwhelmed during the conversation.
After you have more details, communicate about what it is that you want or wish for.
It is often easier to hear and discuss as opposed to talking about something that you need.
Remember that while anger is a very real emotion, there is always something else under it.
Be aware of what else could be there: hurt, disappointment, betrayal, fear, etc.
Often, communication is the key within relationships.
When faced with our significant other telling us about a crush, it can create or highlight feelings or thoughts that can promote feelings of insecurity.
Talk to your partner about their crush and use the conversation to strengthen your bond.
No one can tell you how to deal with your own relationship, even a therapist.
But, you should absolutely give your girlfriend the respect of believing both of those statements she gives you: development of feelings and it being a "crush.
If that makes you feel a certain way (mistrustful? no difference in feelings) then that is what is most important to understand.
When you understand exactly how YOU feel about hearing this news, then we can know how you should deal with this.
You have every right to be in the relationship or to leave the relationship.
But if trust is broken, first and foremost it needs repairing.
What that repair looks like varies (but can often involve couples therapy, which may be complicated because of the long-distance nature of the relationship.
) Otherwise, staying in a relationship that has become mistrustful for you, and not prioritizing the repair, is a recipe for disaster.
Long distance relationships have the addition strain of being far away.
It sounds like you and your girlfriend overcame the initial challenges considering that you've been together for over a year and she was honest in telling you about her crush.
These are some clear strengths in your relationship.
Now moving forward, continuing to have honest conversations about your relationship will help ensure you two are on the same page.
Explore with her how this crush came about and what her feelings are about this relationship.
Be prepared for the answers and express your feelings as well.
You've invested over a year in this relationship, it may be worth figuring out how to mend it.
Ignoring this issue will potentially lead to other issues.
Did your girlfriend tell you her reason to tell you about the new person?Your feelings of insecurity is natural because you don't know where the crush fits into her life.
Since any long-lasting relationship in which both people thrive, means each partner freely speaks their mind and will be listened and responded, then your current situation is a good one to start these foundations of talking with one another.
Tell your girlfriend whatever is on your mind regarding her crush.
As your trusted partner, theoretically she would like to know all about how you feel.
Keep the expectation that talking about anything at all, is the best sign of closeness.
Once you learn more about this crush you can decide what, if anything to do differently in your relationship.
Those words must have been extremely difficult to hear or read.
It sounds like you are both having difficulty with the distance, and I can only imagine that you have both been coping with this distance as well as you can.
There are a few scenarios that I think would have pretty radically different paths for your own mental health, and I would like to explore them separately.
The first scenario is that she has this crush, but still chooses you and wishes to stay with you.
Keeping the value of her choice in mind, and the bravery she has shown in admitting this crush, handling her gently in that vulnerable place will pay off.
You may find it worthwhile to explain your feelings about it, to share how it is hurting you to know of this, and what she means to you.
Explaining those feelings will help you to not act out in your with emotions to cover up by becoming angry or withdrawing.
Acting in this way will help assure her of her choice in you, and sharing these emotions and feeling supported by her may help you cope with this.
The other scenario is that she has a crush on this man and she is wanting to leave the relationship with you to have one with this other person.
As before, it would be useful for you to share your feelings with someone.
It can be difficult to process through these emotions, as they are intense and often overwhelming.
In this scenario, it may be too difficult to share these feelings with your girlfriend, but it is still important that you acknowledge this loss and allow the associated emotions to have its place.
Grieving the end of this relationship could be a great source of personal growth.
I hope this has been of some help.
If I understand you correctly, this "maybe-boyfriend" has done a partial break up, and wants to maintain a partial relationship.
Is that ok with you? And, if it is, what does it cost you? He says he's "done" but still wants the connection.
That seems to leave him free to explore other options, but it doesn't allow you to do the same.
Break ups are painful, and I know you'd like to avoid that.
I get it that you feel attached to him - you have been in a relationship with him for 4 years, so that makes sense.
However, loving him appears to be costing you a lot, without much in return.
If you wait for him to define what he wants, you could be on hold for a long time.
Please don't wait another year to advocate for yourself.
See a therapist who can help you figure out what you need out of relationships and why you have allowed yourself to be on "pause".
It is possible that once you get clear, you will be able to have a true relationship with him.
If not, please don't settle for this.
Take good care of yourself.
That does sound very confusing.
and hurtful.
You do not have to tolerate someone treating you in a way that hurts you.
It may be helpful to decide where the boundaries are for you and to stay true to them in your interactions with him.
You teach other people how they are allowed to treat you.
Have you brought up the topic as to the way you're feeling?The best way for someone to understand us or to understand someone, is to directly talk about the specific problem.
To start the discussion w your partner, understand your own reasons for continuing the relationship.
Given his stated disinterest in the relationship, your mood is probably affected by this.
Once you are clear on how the range of your feelings, especially any fears on being alone, suggesting you may be staying w this guy simply to avoid such fears, then you'll be ready w your self-knowledge, to start a conversation w your partner about your relationship.
This can be difficult and confusing.
If you think your boyfriend would be open to having a discussion, try asking him for a time when he is willing to have an important discussion.
When that time matches with a time that is good for you, try discussing the type of relationship that you each want to have and what you can start and stop doing to get there.
He may want to be really good friends.
He may also be trying to figure out what he is feeling.
If you end up talking over one another, try letting one person be the one who is talking about their feelings for about five minutes and during that time, try having the other person asked questions to gain more understanding of their experience.
Then you can switch.
Also consider asking questions that cannot be answered with yes or no, but lead to more explanations.
Questions that start with the words how, what, when, who are usually better than questions starting with "why" because they can be emotional triggers for some people.
If this is difficult to do between the two of you, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples.
What most people don't know is that sexual preferences can be fluid, meaning our sexual orientation is not as fixed as most people believe.
Women in particular tend to be more fluid in their desire to express and experience sex.
It is not uncommon for heterosexual women in their mid-life to explore new sexual appetites.
That said, men tend to be more rigid in their orientations particularly if they are hetero while gay men tend to be more fluid.
So if your distress is over your new interests I would tell you, you are not alone and not abnormal.
Since you have started exploring, enjoy and consider seeing a therapist to help you navigate your feelings around this new sexual life! Warm wishes.
Sexuality is normally formed during adolescence.
It would be extremely rare for someone to develop feelings of same-sex attraction later in life.
I would explore whether the attraction you are experiencing is sexually-based or intimacy-based.
Perhaps you are craving a close, emotionally intimate relationship with the same-sex, but have somehow sexualized that desire.
People often short-cut emotional intimacy for sexual intimacy.
This would be something to explore with a counselor.
Few people are actually 100% straight or 100% gay.
Sexual preference exists on a continuum.
Over the course of many years a person's sexual preference may shift.
Sexuality is fluid.
It is possible to find yourself attracted sexually or affectionally to different types of people at different times in your life.
During these encounters did you feel safe? accepted? Where you able to experience something new in your life.
It is natural to feel attraction to all people.
As young children we love everyone.
It was as we got older that the social constructs had us make a "choice".
It could have been that you were always attracted to the same sex, but now are allowing yourself to feel and explore.
But also know that life is interesting as we grow and mature we find that we like things we never liked before, things we said we would never do now seem appealing.
What is the story you are telling yourself about having these interests? Try to not overthink your attractions.
See where they take you.
You are on a journey to discover yourself.
There are many possible answers to your question.
The best one will be the one you decide after reflecting on your own reasoning as to your sexual attraction change.
Sometimes people inhibit their sexuality bc of fear others will disapprove.
Currently since in most circles being gay is acceptable, the conditions are much easier now to come out.
Maybe this describes you.
How happy are you in your marriage?Sometimes people find it easier to discover a sudden change in their sexuality than to face painful emotions in an existing marriage.
These are only two theoretical possibilities and may not even reflect your own.
What matters is your self-discovery and that you trust your findings as the answer to your question.
I would ask you, "do you feel like you need to come up with a label?" Is there something about identifying as one or the other that would be helpful for you? From what current science has told us about sexual orientation, it's a spectrum.
There are people on the spectrum who are clearly gay, or clearly heterosexual, and then there is everyone in between, which includes being "bisexual" (which I guess in the spectrum would be smack in the middle?)It may be too early for you to identify as any one thing on that spectrum (as you say, "but I don't really know"), or maybe as you move through life you just won't identify as any one thing, and that's totally okay.
The most important thing, in my professional opinion, is to accept yourself, fully, for whatever it is that you are.
The second most important thing, in my professional opinion too, is to be honest with yourself and your partners about however you do identify your sexual orientation.
Sexual orientation is not always something that is clearly definable.
Some people look at it on a continuum where being attracted to only boys is at one end, only girls is at the other, and bisexual is in the middle.
Anywhere in between those points can be any amount of attraction to boys or girls.
If you don't know whether you are gay or bisexual, that is okay.
A lot of people don't know for quite some time.
In addition to that, after people do know who they are attracted to, a lot of times they do not use the terms "gay" or "bisexual" for quite a while.
It's okay not to know.
Think about what sorts of expectations you have for your ideal relationship.
Some examples may include trust, respect, availability for conversation or connection, etc.
Whatever it is that you find important in a relationship is likely what matters most.
If you are struggling with learning what it is that you would like in a relationship or any other feelings connected with what you are thinking and feeling, I would suggest connecting with a local therapist so you have a place to talk about what you are experiencing.
I am so sorry this happened.
Sharing a part of your private life without your permission can be so painful.
I might suggest (depending on your relationship) reaching out to your sister and discussing this (or setting boundary that you don't want to discuss your private life).
I might also speak with your wife and share how hurt you are and what you need to happen moving forward to begin to heal.
Echoing others here, I'm sorry, she shouldn't have.
Hopefully, you will have a conversation (or, in reality, several conversations) about relationship expectations of privacy.
Are there things your wife would prefer you not share with her family? Without exploring what is or isn't okay through healthy dialog, it's entirely possible she felt her sister was 'in the circle' of people she could share this with.
All that said, though .
now that you've been outed, you have an opportunity to be more authentically you: what will you do with it?
If you enjoy cross-dressing and are comfortable with how you feelaand aware of your own thoughts and feelings about it in private as compared to in public, I see no problem with that.
If you would like to become more comfortable with it or express more feelings about it, I recommend that you see a local mental health professional, not because there is anything wrong with what you are doing, but so you can learn more about yourself in the process.
You may find that doing this in private and having a partner who accepts that is your view of how you would like things to be.
You may discover that you would like to do this in public.
I appreciate your honesty.
Wonderful! I am so excited for you.
What a huge decision.
I am writing from Toronto Canada so it is hard for me to direct you specifically.
I would start with two things : Find a doctor that is comfortable perscribing hormones and find a Counsellor or Therapist that is transgender specialized.
They will know how transitioning works in your health care system and other supports as well.
Google is a wonderful way to find these resources.
I wish you well.
Thanks for writing!
I agree with Amy.
We get a lot of pressure from others and even ourselves to define who we are and what we want at a pretty early age.
The truth is, our sexuality can change and grow in directions we never imagined.
I may be wrong, but I am getting the impression that you may not want to be gay.
That this is something you didn't like others suggesting and now you are uncomfortable with the idea that it may be true.
This would certainly be understandable.
Your sexuality is YOURS and yours alone.
It can be quite frustrating and hurful when others try to define who you are.
And it can be equally frustrating when you are trying to figure it out for yourself.
The truth is that there are many different possibilities when it comes to sexual orientation.
It may help to think about what qualities you find attractive.
What kind of person can you see yourself being attracted to? Someone smart? Funny? Loves dogs? If you look for these qualities in a person they may lead you to being attracted to someone of the same sex, but maybe not.
At least you would be choosing someone based on values and qualities that you love and admire.
Another idea is to chat with a counselor, if you are interested.
Preferrably one who has done some training in affirmative therapy.
Use this time to explore who you are.
imagine what your life would be like if you were gay and not, ask yourself what is different? What scenario do you find yourself gravitating to? What is important is that you are happy.
My message to you is that you do not need to define yourself with your sexual preference or feel the need to label yourself, especially if you are confused and exploring what your sexual preference is.
It doesn't sound like you are finding yourself attracted to anyone.
It could mean that you just haven't connected with anyone you find attractive, or that you are asexual - essentially not oriented toward anyone.
I would suggest doing some reading on asexuality and see if it connects to how you feel!
There are variations of asexuality.
Some people who are asexual have an interest in sex and others don't.
Also, once you read more on this topic, you may find that you don't connect with asexuality either, and that is okay.
Our society usually thinks of sexual orientations as only being straight, gay, lesbian, or bisexual, but the truth is there are many variations of sexual orientations.
Keep exploring.
There is a good chance that there is a community of people who feel like you do.
Finally, labels are important for a lot of things, but labeling ourselves can sometimes lead to some painful feelings.
Try not to feel pressured to label yourself too quickly.
This is your journey.
Your experience.
Take all the time you need.
You may never feel the need to label how you feel, and that is okay, too.
Hope this helps.
No, it does not necessarily.
Your sexual preference is based on who you ARE attracted to, not what does not turn you on.
If you find you have no sex drive at all, this is called asexual.
But you did not mention what you do find arrousing either.
Hope this helps.
Hi.
It can be difficult to handle such a transition on your own.
I work with clients to understand their needs and wants.
This can involve how to communicate effectively with friends, family, and other loved ones; or, learning how to have self-acceptance.
I strongly recommend speaking with a licensed clinician one on one to help facilitate the change you are looking for.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
I am so glad that you reached out for help.
I know that the dysphoria can feel nearly impossible to handle, especially since you have limited support from people who accept who you are.
You may already know some of these resources, but I am going to share a few.
The website www.
letsqueerthingsup.
com is a blog from a very good writer that I know.
His name is Sam Dylan Finch, and he is transgender.
He writes about mental health, transgender issues, and many other topics.
I know he has frequently written about gender dysphoria and ways to manage it.
You may want to check out his site and do a search on there.
If you search for gender dysphoria on their site, many articles pop up.
It may be a good resource for you, especially if you ever feel lonely and start to forget that there are others out there who are like you and have your back.
I am not sure where you live, but there are counselors who specialize in affirmative therapy, which is what is recommended for folks who are part of the LGBTQ community.
So, if you decide to see a counselor about the dysphoria, try to find one that specifically says they have been trained in the affirmative approach.
In addition, feel free to ask questions of the counselor before agreeing to see them for counseling.
An ethical counselor would have no problem answering them before having you come in.
If there are some LGBTQ resource centers in your area, try to reach out to them and see if there are support groups.
Gaining more support from others would be helpful.
Sometimes LGBTQ-friendly counselors leave their contact information for people in resource centers.
Finally, I know you have not mentioned being depressed or suicidal, but I also know that it is very common for people to consider suicide when they are struggling with dysphoria, dealing with transphobia, etc.
If this ever happens to you, please call 911 or the Trans Lifeline.
This is a difficult situation to be in, as it sounds like you are feeling very isolated from both your family and your friends.
I don't know your age or gender so please excuse any incorrect assumptions about you being under 18 and use what is useful from the ideas if you are older.
One idea is to research online to find a therapist or a local clinic that has a therapist who is a "Gender Therapist" or a "Gender Specialist.
Most therapists who are transgender affirmative also have other specialties and do general therapy.
Though I don't think lying to your parents is a good idea, if you feel you truly can't talk to them about your gender, then perhaps you can find a therapist with a specialization in gender identity who can help you cope with your gender dysphoria.
You can let your parents know that you would like to see that particular therapist for other reasons, such as anxiety/worry, and that you researched them and liked their website.
Work to find a therapist who takes your parents insurance if you can.
You can also talk to the therapist on the phone first, before you talk to your parents about scheduling the first therapy visit.
Therapists can help you learn some ways to manage feelings of worry, shame, and fear related to gender dysphoria.
Depending on your family situation, many therapists will work to help you learn skills to safely communicate with your parents about what is troubling you.
Your parents may actually surprise you and be more accepting than you think.
Usually when parents learn that you are suffering, they want to be open to learning how they can help you, even if awkwardly at first.
Reframing is a tool that helps you think about your situation from other perspectives.
It's kind of how you can look at the same picture with a different picture frame and it makes the same picture look a little different.
Keep in mind your situation is probably temporary and think about in the context of your whole long life.
If you are living at home, you will eventually be more independent and be able to make more of your decisions about your gender expression.
Keep the idea in mind the concept that is popular in mindfulness classes I teach, that "This too shall pass" or "This is only for now" when you start to feel hopeless.
If you start to over focus on your gender or body issues, try to distract yourself with things that make you feel happy (your pet, music, art, sports etc) or stay busy.
If you can, find any GSA or LGBTIQQ youth group that you can attend confidentially, further away from home, to get some support.
Work to find an ally, one person, that you can talk to about what you are feeling.
Making new friends online through social media can sometimes be a start in breaking down the isolation you feel.
Another idea, if you are under 24 years old, there is a phone line (866-488-7386) to call in case you are ever feeling you are in crisis.
Are there ways you can focus on parts of your body you love? Can you focus on that when you look in the mirror? Are you a writer? Can you write stories or poetry about the life you imagine for yourself in the future? Can you do small things that help you get more in touch with your gender day to day like making small choices about your clothing, like wearing clothes that are more unisex, that only you know are gender related but others won't notice? You cannot force others to accept you but you can work on your self-acceptance and self-compassion.
That work is something that is best done in the company of others like you as well as with at least another person who gets you and whom you can trust.
Good luck to you!
