If everyone thinks you're worthless, then maybe you need to find new people to hang out with.
Seriously, the social context in which a person lives is a big influence in self-esteem.
Otherwise, you can go round and round trying to understand why you're not worthless, then go back to the same crowd and be knocked down again.
There are many inspirational messages you can find in social media.
Maybe read some of the ones which state that no person is worthless.
Everyone has a good purpose to their life.
Since our culture is so saturated with the belief that if someone doesn't feel good about themselves that this is somehow terrible.
Bad feelings are part of living.
They are the motivation to remove ourselves from situations and relationships which do us more harm than good.
Bad feelings do feel terrible.
Your feeling of worthlessness may be good in the sense of motivating you to find out that you are much better than your feelings today.
Hello, and thank you for your question and seeking advice on this.
Feelings of worthlessness is unfortunately common.
In fact, most people, if not all, have felt this to some degree at some point in their life.
You are not alone.
Changing our feelings is like changing our thoughts.
Our minds are so amazing that the minute you change your thought another one can be right there to take it's place.
Without your permission, another thought can just pop in there.
The new thought may feel worse than the last one.
My guess is that you have tried several things to improve this on your own even before reaching out on here.
People often try thinking positive thoughts, debating with their thoughts, or simply telling themselves that they need to "snap out of it" - which is also a thought that carries some self-criticism.
Some people try a different approach, and there are counselors out there that can help you with this.
The idea is that instead of trying to change the thoughts, you change how you respond to them.
You learn skills that allow you to manage difficult thoughts and feelings differently so they don't have the same impact on you that they do right now.
For some people, they actually DO begin to experience less hurtful thoughts once they learn how to manage the ones they have differently.
Acceptance and Commitment Therapy may be a good choice for you.
There is information online and even self-help books that you can use to teach you the skills that I mentioned.
Because they are skills, they require practice, but many people have found great relief and an enriched life by learning them.
As for suicidal thoughts, I am very glad to read that this has not happened to you.
Still, you should watch out for this because it can be a sign of a worsening depression.
If you begin to think about this, it is important to reach out to a support system right away.
I hope some other colleagues will provide you more suggestions.
Be well.
First thing I'd suggest is getting the sleep you need or it will impact how you think and feel.
I'd look at finding what is going well in your life and what you can be grateful for.
I believe everyone has talents and wants to find their purpose in life.
I think you can figure it out with some help.
Therapy is essential for those that are feeling depressed and worthless.
When I work with those that are experiencing concerns related to feeling of depression and issues with self esteem.
I generally work with my client to help build coping skills to reduce level of depression and to assist with strengthening self esteem, by guiding my client with CBT practices.
CBT helps with gaining a better awareness of how your thought process influences yourbelief system, and how your beliefs impact your actions and the outcome of your behaviors.
This process isn't easy but it helps teach an individual that we don't always have control over what happens in our lives but we can control how we interpret, feel, and behave.
CBT is good for individuals dealing with depression, anxiety, toxic relationships, stress, self esteem, codependency.
I first want to let you know that you are not alone in your feelings and there is always someone there to help.
You can always change your feelings and change your way of thinking by being open to trying to change.
You can always make yourself available to learning new things or volunteering so that you can make a purpose for yourself.
Heck, sure thing, hun!Feelings of 'depression' have a deeply-rooted base in physical structures that may not be functioning very well at present; and, we can certainly turn them on again using means that you are able to find around the house and with relative ease :)After that, emotional and spiritual support will be liberally applied.
You are exhibiting some specific traits of a particular temperament type.
Seek out a counselor who provides NCCA temperament therapy and discover the joy of being you -- God loves you as you are!
That is intense.
Depression is a liar.
Sometimes depression places these glasses over our eyes, these dark sunglasses that change how we see things.
Depression tells us things like "you're worthless" "no one likes you" "don't worry about doing anything.
And it is so easy for us to listen and to be tricked into thinking that just because we feel something means it is true.
Please know that even if you are feeling worthless right now, that doesn't mean you are worthless.
The first step to working through this is recognizing what is going on.
Recognizing when depression is telling you the same story (ie; being worthless) with different words (ie worthless here, worthless there) and making an effort to talk back.
While I can not give you a diagnosis of depression, reading what you are going through, it sounds like you might need help to get back on track.
Seeing a counselor can open an entirely new option up wherein someone who is not involved in your life can help you without judgement and with an objective perspective.
This can do wonders in unwrapping these kinds of thoughts.
Wishing you the absolute best!
It sounds like you may be putting yourself last.
You wrote that you want to fix your issues but never get around to it.
I wonder how you are spending your mental and physical energy.
Are you spending time taking care of and doing for others.
I also wonder where the thoughts and feelings of being worthless are coming from - are you around people who treat you poorly or are hurtful.
Or do you feel it is more of a worry you have but aren't really sure how others feel.
It may be helpful to talk to someone about your feelings - a counselor perhaps - to clarify your feelings and move forward from se that are hurting you.
It must be really difficult to experience what your going through right now.
It takes a lot of courage to reach out.
It sounds like you want to get better, but perhaps need some help to get over the hump.
Many of the symptoms you have described are consistent with a person who is dealing with depression.
Depression is a treatable condition.
Typically, if these symptoms have persisted for more than two weeks, then it is a good idea to seek professional help.
Someone who is trained in dealing with depression.
Initially, a comprehensive assessment would be completed to rule out any other causes for your symptoms and to determine the exact nature of your presenting concern.
Then, in collaboration with one another, a tailored treatment plan would be developed, focusing on how to best help you reach your goals.
The good news is that their is hope for getting better.
You don;t have to do it alone.
Allow me to be your ally in healing.
People who feel worthless were, in one way or another, were told that they are worthless.
This is the lie that they are living with.
The work of therapy is to help people see their true good selves.
This gives them self esteem.
I'm sorry to hear you're feeling this intense emotion of worthlessness.
I'm glad to hear this has not reached the point of suicidal ideation; however, it does sounds like you could use some additional support right now.
I would recommend seeking out counseling to help you challenge the negative beliefs you have about yourself.
Although many types of therapy would be helpful, cognitive-behavioral therapy has been shown to be a good approach for this type of struggle.
A CBT therapist can help you identify your negative thoughts and beliefs, figure out the ways your thoughts are being distorted (for example, all-or-nothing thinking, or discounting the positives about yourself), and reframe your thoughts to be more positive.
You might also consider EMDR therapy, which helps the brain reprocess traumatic or distressing memories and helps you move forward with more positive beliefs about yourself.
Best wishes!
It sounds like you may be struggling with depression.
Depression can make you feel overwhelmed and paralyzed to change.
I would suggest that you connect with a provider who can help you get to the root of where the worthlessness is coming from and help you develop a plan for recovery.
In the meantime, small steps can go a long way.
Self-care interventions such as journaling your feelings, mindfulness meditation, and regular exercise are all helpful to reconnecting with the present moment and gaining internal motivation.
Focusing on one day at a time and bringing your thoughts back to the present can also be beneficial.
There is hope!
I'm glad you are interested in changing your feelings of worthlessness.
Visiting your doctor is a great first step to address your lack of sleep.
First, you want to make sure that you are physically healthy and that there isn't a physical condition causing your problem with sleep.
Changing your feelings is something that is difficult to do, especially on your own.
Make sure that you have someone you can trust and you can talk to about how you feel.
This can be a friend or a family member.
If you find that there isn't anyone you would feel comfortable talking to about this issue, find a therapist close to you who can help.
One activity that people have found helpful in feeling better about themselves is keeping a gratitude journal.
You can do this by journaling daily about the things that you are grateful for.
There is no right or wrong way of doing this, as long as you focus your journal entries on the things you are grateful for in life.
You have several things going on here.
The sleep should be addressed with a primary care physician to rule out any physical issues.
Sleep is the big reset and allows us to function in the day.
Medication can help with this.
I also use a Pranayama yoga breathing technique called the four fold breath which has great usefulness for relaxing us and often does work quite well with allowing us to sleep.
First list the evidence that contradicts the thought.
Has anyone in the past made positive comments toward you.
This might be hard to recall if we are in a rut, but at some point in life we frequently have had some positives expressed towards us by others.
Everyone‚ is an absolute.
The specifics on why you are thinking this need to be addressed.
How are you arriving at this conclusion.
There may be specific people that we want more.
validation from.
Or specific people might have made offhand hurtful comments, (such as a family member, teacher or co-worker) but if I extrapolate that to a global and think that everyone thinks I am worthless, that thought is not rooted in facts.
What are the Pros and Cons of thinking this way.
What are the Benefits and Costs.
There are very little pros or benefits to thinking this way.
It's just going to continue to tear you down and make you feel bad.
So can we reframe the thought about the situation.
Is there another way of looking at the situation.
Again, we need the specifics on how you are arriving at this conclusion, and a one on one therapist can definitely help you with this, but the thinking that you are using to arrive at the conclusion needs to be re-cast into a more helpful mindset.
Hello, you sound like you have so much on your mind.
I am relieved to hear that you have never tried or have contemplated suicide, but not being able to sleep, feeling worthless, and like you shouldn't be here are big issues that need addressing.
Please get around to counseling.
Having someone to listen to you is a gift to yourself.
You deserve the help of someone helping you change your feelings of worthlessness.
You have not been able to do this alone.
It's time to reach out for help.
You can do this, best to you!
It sounds like you are having some pretty severe depression.
Depression can cause insomnia, and make a person focus on their own perceptions that they are "worthless".
It is important to remember that other people may not truly perceive you as worthless.
This is the depression talking.
I think that it is extremely important when you are this depressed, to sit down and write down some positives about yourself.
What are your strengths.
What are some positive things that your have done in your life.
It concerns me that you are having suicidal thoughts.
It sounds like now is the time to act on the idea of getting some help for yourself.
If you feel like you might actually take your life, I would recommend that you go to a hospital emergency room, or a mental health crisis clinic right away to get some help.
The most important thing right now is to keep yourself safe.
If you are feeling like you are not going to hurt yourself despite your suicidal thoughts, I would recommend that you focus on finding a therapist as soon as possible.
I don't know what your situation is in terms of insurance.
The back of your insurance card should inform you how to obtain mental health services.
There are also low cost services available with such places as Catholic Charities, and others.
Your local county mental health agency should be able to refer you to some appropriate places.
Good luck.
Remember to identify your strengths, and the good things about yourself.
Marie.
You can, for sure.
and the first step is to believe you are worthy TO YOURSELF.
Recognizing you are in a quest is already a big first step.
Taking the time to start figuring out who you are is definitely the next.
do so with SELF COMPASSION and kindness.
Know this is a process and just look forward for what you might find.
I do recommend you find someone to talk to (there are many options out there that can fit the situation you are in), and I also recommend you start by giving yourself the importance to invest some time and effort in this quest.
YOU DESERVE IT.
There are some excellent TED Talks you can google, great books you can read, or even joining a yoga practice, team or some kind of hobby may help.
Anything that shows yourself you are worthy of this effort.
Have patience and start!!!
the answer is out there waiting for you.
Asking these questions already set you on the right path.
Oftentimes we can change our feelings about ourselves by building a better relationship with ourself.
It sounds like there is a very critical aspect of your self that is alive and taking over.
Sometimes when we are stuck it is because a part of ourselves, a way that perhaps we learned to cope with difficult situations earlier in our lives, has decided to run the show.
Like a highly critical part that may actually be desperately attempting to protect us from a past hurt.
Slowing down and even forming a relationship with this critical internal part will help you get some space from it.
When we can begin to observe parts of ourselves, be curious about them, get to know them like a new friend, then we have room for other ways of being.
Beginning therapy could be a great way to change this feeling of worthlessness.
Beginning to build a better relationship and understanding of yourself will deeply influence the relationships around you.
This first step may feel hard, to reach out to someone, and it could be the beginning step to a path of radically shifting your relationship with yourself and others in your life.
Feelings of worthlessness often originate from what you learned about yourself when you were young.
Improving your self esteem needs focus on that original message from parents, teachers or siblings that may be suppressed.
Most of us need help to uncover the "lie" because you were born valuable!
The feeling of being worthless is caused by your inside being not matching your outside result.
Your comparison to others and you thinking you need to be someone other than who you are.
You are not worthless.
No one is worthless.
You need to find your worth and not let yourself talk yourself out of the good you find in yourself.
I hope these words resonate with you and that you start looking for your worth even if it's as simple as I am able to get out of bed and call someone and make a joke.
"Hi there, I'm sorry you're feeling this way.
Let me see if I can guide you in the right direction.
Often when I talk to my clients about feelings of worthlessness we start with a little bit of self-exploration.
We start with noticing.
Start to notice when these feelings come up for you.
Is there a particular time of day, a specific person who brings it out, a phrase you hear.
Just start to notice.
Usually it's tied to something but it may take a while to figure out what that something/someone is.
Try to be patient.
Next we start to explore.
When did these feelings start.
Where do you think they come from.
Is there something - a statement - perhaps that repeats in your head over and over again.
If so, whose voice is it.
These are difficult questions, and just a few of them, so take your time answering them.
(We usually do it over a few sessions.
) It might even be helpful to write them down somewhere.
If you have a journal that would be a great place as research has shown that our brain works differently when we put pen to paper versus typing on a computer.
Now comes the good news.
Our brains are able to rewire themselves.
This allows us to change habits we don't want as well as statements we say to ourselves that are no longer serving us.
The next step is to select an ally.
Someone who is or has been in your corner, someone who is always rooting for you.
If you don't have someone like that, that's ok - a lot of us don't - you can just make someone up.
Close your eyes and try to describe that person in great detail from the way they look to the way they act to the way they sound.
Now, pick a phrase you would like that person to say to you whenever you start to think that you're worthless.
Something that will help you feel better about yourself - a characteristic, a skill, a great joke you tell, a physical attribute.
This also takes time and may involve you asking for help from someone who knows you.
Once you have all of that together - the noticing, answers from where these feelings and statement(s) come from, your ally, your new statement, you can try to put it altogether.
When the feelings come up, notice what is bringing them up and then call upon your ally to try to change the statement in your head from the self-defeating one to the more positive, uplifting one.
I hope this was helpful.
Again, I do this with my clients over quite a few weeks, if not months, and I am there with them the whole time.
It is quite an involved process and can bring up a lot of very difficult feeling/memories.
If at any point you find it too hard to go at alone, please seek help.
If you take anything away from this reply, know that there is help out there and that it is possible to change the way you feel.
I am sorry you are feeling this way.
We all have narratives that we say to ourselves whether it is valid or not.
In your case it would be beneficial to explore when and how this belief began and rewrite your story.
There are different ways to explore and rewrite.
This process requires commitment, self-reflection and courage.
Let me start by saying there are never too many concerns that you can bring into counselling.
In fact, most people who come to see me for counselling have more than one issue they would like to work on in psychotherapy and most times these are all interconnected.
In counselling, we work together, collaboratively, to figure out which issues you would like to address first and then together we develop an individualized plan of care.
Basically, it's like a road map of where you want to go, how are you going to get there, looking at stopovers, some scenic routes others possibly not so scenic, however, necessary.
Of course, these plans can also change due to internal (what we have control over like our thoughts, feelings and behaviours) or external reasons (those things that are outside our control).
I would encourage you to take the next step and reach out to a professional you can trust and build rapport with by co-journeying through whatever concerns you have by examining what has been working so far as you have learned to cope with some of your issues like insomnia, depression and anxiety, as well as being a breast cancer survivor.
Then to help you by developing new coping strategies.
Psychotherapy can be such a powerful tool to help you get to where it is you want to be.
I know you can do it and you will see first-hand how psychotherapy will help you to move past these points in your life where you are feeling stuck.
I like to quote Nike where their motto is,just do it.
‚You can do it.
It is never too late to get help and begin making significant changes and improvements in your life.
The right time is when you feel ready and open to change.
Sometimes when we have a history of trauma, like sexual abuse, the impact of that trauma can affect many areas of our lives as adults.
Working with a therapist who specializes in trauma is a great way to begin developing skills to manage present day life, learn to regulate your emotions and nervous system when you become triggered, and then in a safe environment have the opportunity to process past traumas so you can live your present life with more ease and joy.
People can and do recover from the impacts of trauma at any stage in their life.
It is never too late and you can feel better.
You have been through so much and it sounds like you have a lot of things that have complied over the years.
Regardless of the struggles you have been through, you do not have too many issues for counseling.
Many times when someone starts out their counseling and healing journey, there are multiple things they would like to address and work on.
If you decide to start counseling, you and your therapist can decide collaboratively what you would like to process and work on first.
Be sure to express to your counselor if any of the above experiences you've been through is causing a lot of distress , as many times the first things addressed are the ones that are presently affecting your life or you emotionally.
Often times when we experience negative situations in our life , but do not address them, they bottle up inside us and can manifest in other ways, such as depression or even physical symptoms like IBS or neck pain.
Counseling can give these bottled up emotions and situations a release.
Given the situation you shared, not only do I not think that you have too many issues for counseling, but believe that you will be a great candidate and can get a lot from it.
Absolutely not.
I strongly recommending working on one issue/need at a time.
In therapy you will set smart goals and objectives that will help you reach your goals.
I see you as a survivor and not a victim.
Best wishes to you.
Absolutely not.
In fact, most people have many issues, A lot lot of the issues you are describing commonly go hand in hand ( in "therapy speak" we call it co-morbid conditions)I would venture that most of the feelings you are struggling with stem from your early trauma.
You would benifit tremendously from counseling.
A good therapist will develope a treatment plan that addresses all of your needs.
With help you could definitely live a happy life without all of your anxiety and depression getting in the way!
This is a great question.
I personally don't believe that any client could ever have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, that type of thinking may be stopping you from seeking counseling, so it may be hindering you from getting the help you need.
In fact, all of what you described points to the importance of you seeking help in order to cope with the many challenges in your life.
If you seek counseling, it will be important for you to understand that you may need to remain in counseling for a sustained period of time in order to work through each of these issues.
All of these issues won't be able to be solved right away or in a brief period of time.
Counseling will take commitment and hard work, but it is possible for you to recover and heal from all of the issues you described.
Many clients come into counseling with numerous issues rather than just one particular thing.
Most of the time, the issues relate to and exacerbate each other.
We call these "comorbid" conditions, which means that two or more mental health problems exist at one time.
A lot of the times, when you start to work on one issue, the other issues get better as a result.
I encourage you to find a professional therapist that can help you learn how to cope with all of the mental health difficulties that you described.
You deserve the help just as much as anyone else.
Hi.
Many people begin their therapeutic journey with histories just like yours and experience transformative shifts in their quality of life.
I hope you are able to find a counselor you feel comfortable working with and do the work if you feel called.
Best of luck on your journey!
Absolutely not.
It sounds like you have significant trauma and it will continue to impact your depression until it is dealt with.
Everybody has issues, though some more traumatic than others yet it is best to just start somewhere.
I would encourage you to begin counseling and work through some of your history at your own pace in order to begin to impact and reduce your depressive symptoms.
Most clients have many issues that need working out.
It is normal to have many events in our lives that trouble us and remain with us without counseling help.
The right type of counsellor will help you focus on the main and most troubling issue you have first and work your way through all that you are managing step by step, goal by goal.
Sometimes, working on one issue helps to bring other issues to light in the context of your main problem.
This can help you resolve some other issues that are connected.
Look for someone with experience and specialty in your most pressing issue.
even though you have had breast cancer, you may find that grief from your past is more troubling.
Then you would look for a bereavement or grief specialist.
Just go.
You start with the most prevalent issue by talking with your therapist.
Healing one issue can have a ripple effect and heal other issues as well.
There is no such thing as too many issues for counseling.
Many issues are often interrelated and can all be worked on with some time and patience.
Hi, people who have only a few issues and people who have several issues are perfect for therapy.
There is no such thing as having too many problems for therapy.
Therapy is great because it will help you process all that you are going through, heal from past and present pain, and gain clarity.
Yeah, you might :)At least, it certainly feels like that, I bet.
Not to mention that most counselors out there might generally feel overwhelmed with a "case" with so many problems.
And, so, you will slog along week-to-week with gradual improvements occurring as she slowly does her best to chip away.
The real issue is that these folks don't yet comprehend the integrative nature of each of these subjects and how generally simple it is to understand them, and then eradicate them.
It could be said that you might be the perfect candidate for counseling.
No one is beyond hope, and someone brave enough to be honest regarding their struggles, with the intention of reaching out for help is certainly a person a qualified counselor would be happy to assist.
You may want to do some research on therapists in your local area who specialize in mind-body connection, or one of the struggles you have acknowledged in your post, in order to find a therapist that is best suited to meet your needs.
Good luck on your search, and remember that the world is a better place with you in it.
No, there are never too many issues to address in counseling.
Therapy would begin by prioritizing what you feel needs to be addressed first.
As one area improves, such as processing history of abuse you are likely to see improvement in other areas of your life.
like sleeping better.
"Firstly, I would like to say how amazing that you have been able to live through breast cancer, sexual abuse as well as your depression and anxiety.
You are stronger than you may believe at this moment for being able to continue to grow and live through these experiences.
Take a moment to acknowledge your strength and know that this strength will be an asset during the therapeutic process that you will be able to tap into to find increased self esteem and more strength to address the concerns you are having.
There are never too many concerns to address in therapy sessions.
I hope you can find a great therapist who you can trust to listen and work with you to identify and address the most concerning issues first.
Once you begin to do this you may find an alleviation of symptoms and feelings which could allow you to grow your capacity to manage difficult feelings and situations and address additional concerns.
Before you even realize it the issues you are having will begin to feel more manageable.
Absolutely not.
It is never too much.
The most important thing is that you are reaching out to get help.
Therapy helps you to develop healthier coping strategies and that can help reduce the anxiety and depression as well as improve your sleep.
This can all be done at a pace that is best for you.
Your therapist can help you process all of this in a safe and supportive space.
No, it is natural for us to have a number of issues going on if we don't address the concerns we have in our lives.
Seeking counseling can assist you in working on these issues individually as well as ways in which they intersect and impact each other.
The most direct answer is no.
I would venture to guess that several of the things you are feeling (symptoms) are connected.
I would recommend a trauma counselor.
You have several strengths (resources) that you are able to pull from and I would encourage you to focus on them as you deal with the issues you have placed on the back burner for so long.
Sometimes people are afraid to address things because they feel or believe that they won't be able to handle it.
Compare it to a tornado.
The storm has passed, but you are still in hiding for fear of the aftermath (the mess left behind).
A good therapist is like a personal organizer to help you.
It's not really a question of whether you have too many issues for counseling but more what would you like to work on in counseling.
You control the direction of sessions and depending on how you're feeling in a particular day can predict what direction that session takes.
If you want to work on all the issues you've listed it will just take some dedication on your part to see through the counseling long enough to find a resolution to each of the issues that is satisfactory to you.
You work at your own pace in counseling and it does seem like you may be overwhelmed with the ever-growing list.
But you may just be in search of self improvement and making yourself better, which is a great thing.
It seems as though you may need some form of resolution to what has happened in the past and to work through the trauma you have experienced.
That may be the base of your counseling needs in which self esteem and depression/anxiety may fall underneath it as well.
If you want to start counseling don't let what you need to work on overwhelm you.
Find the counselor that best fits with you and together you both can tackle any issue.
A person never has "too many" issues to address in counseling.
Participating in counseling with a licensed professional offers a safe place and therapeutic relationship where healing can occur.
A trained therapist can help a person unpack and process past and/or current wounds (or events) which may negatively impact day to day living.
They can also help make sense of thoughts and emotions that sometimes feel overwhelming and confusing.
If you want to experience more emotional freedom and gain some tools to help understand and cope with depression and anxiety, I'd encourage you to schedule an appointment with a therapist in your area.
There is no such things as "too many issues".
Many of the issues cited here are connected.
For example, in this case working on the sexual abuse will possibly address the depression, the anxiety, the self esteem.
There may be some grief to process around the impact of the cancer.
Our body, mind and spirit are parts of one system.
They are interconnected.
Addressing these issue are important so you can be relieved of the burden and feel more spontaneous and enjoy life even more.
Of course not.
Counseling is a process, whereby you and your therapist will help you create goals- starting with issues that are most pressing and interfering with your daily functioning.
When anxiety and daily stress is more manageable then you and your therapist can examine more deep rooted or more chronic issues.
You definitely don't have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, counseling can help you understand how most of these things can be related to one another.
For example, insomnia, depression, low self-esteem and anxiety are very common to experience after a traumatic event or events.
Once you begin to work through processing these life altering events that you have experienced, the hope is that you would see a decrease in your other symptoms.
You absolutely do not have too many issues for counselling.
The fact that you are wanting to seek help is commendable and you should feel proud of yourself for reaching out for support.
I know from my experience working with clients that some may say they have only one issue but when we explore it turns out they have many things that they want to discuss that are of equal importance.
I believe that you deserve to feel happy, at ease and also get restful sleep amongst other things.
Please do not feel hesitant because the fact that you know what you want to discuss and work on is amazing.
You know the directions you want to go and the therapist just needs to help you get there.
I suggest sitting down and making a list of what you want to discuss as well as what you feel is more important to address first.
Perhaps the therapist can help you with that as well.
Thank you for sharing your question.
I imagine it feels overwhelming and discouraging at times if you feel like there are too many issues to address in a counseling session.
I would encourage you to share these concerns with a counselor because a counselor can help you organize the concerns into a list of specific goals.
There are never too many issues in living.
In a way we take on too many issues at one time.
Then we become over whelmed with "anxiety and depression.
A skillful, caring therapist will help you find a place to start and deal with one issue at a time.
when this helps the other issues.
Then the other issues become more manageable.
I gain.
confidence I can take on life better and, importantly , enjoy living life more.
My best to you.
There are never "too many issues" to be addressed in therapy.
Most people come in with multiple issues they want to address.
The wonderful thing about therapy, is that often, as one or more significant issues begin to change and improve- the lead naturally without much effort to improvements in the other areas.
(For example, as you begin to address trauma and betrayal from you past, you may find that the insomnia improves).
Your therapist, with you input and direction, can help you to prioritize which problem areas to target first.
You can be helped.
Many of the people I see have multiple issues.
These issues are often linked so that helping one issue will positively help the other issues.
The short answer is: absolutely not.
The longer answer is that it might take some time to process all of the issues, and it may feel quite "muddy" in the issues for a lot longer than is tolerable (which is why counseling may have been postponed to begin with for you.
) It's important to be realistic when entering counseling of any sort, and that the therapist be realistic with you about what you might be able to expect working with that person (I use the words "might be able to expect" because therapy experiences can vary.
) But that not having counseling about trauma that you have experienced much earlier in your life can play a significant role in the process and how long that process could take to unpack all that may have been buried over time.
It might also be helpful in counseling to work with the therapist on figuring out where to begin, but to also manage the feelings of being overwhelmed that may make it hard to continue to show up and do the work required, week in and week out.
It isn't easy work trying to process past pain that you experienced, and so consistent practice of self-care, including leaning on support systems outside of therapy, is key.
Usually people who struggle with depression also have symptoms of anxiety.
These symptoms come about as a result of underlying causes.
The obstacles you have been overcoming such as abuse, cancer and insomnia likely bring about similar feelings and emotions in you which affect your self-esteem.
Counseling is meant to support people who have layers of difficulties.
We see the difficulties as layers to an onion, peeling away the many layers.
Often times when an individual begins the counseling process it is revealed that there is more than one thing going on.
When we think about how much is wrong, it can be overwhelming and we may not know where to even start.
Counseling can provide guidance to help you to begin working toward healing in a way that is most helpful for you to reach your goals.
It is very common forpeople to have multiple issues that they want to (and need to) address in counseling.
I have had clients ask that same question and through more exploration, there is often an underlying fear that they "can't be helped" or that they will "be too much for their therapist.
I don't know if any of this rings true for you.
But, most people have more than one problem in their lives and more often than not, people have numerous significant stressors in their lives.
Let's face it, life can be complicated.
Therapists are completely ready and equipped to handle all of the issues small or large that a client presents in session.
Most therapists over the first couple of sessions will help you prioritize the issues you are facing so that you start addressing the issues that are causing you the most distress.
You can never have too many issues to address in counseling.
All of the issues you mention above can be successfully worked through in counseling.
Absolutely not.
When we have the courage to accept the challenge to address whatever is causing us pain, the solutions often generalize to many, if not all of our symptoms.
I would suggest that unresolved trauma from sexual abuse is likely a primary contributing factor.
However, it is important that you first build a trusting relationship with a therapist experienced in trauma treatment as this is an area of specialty that not all therapists are skilled in treating.
Choosing one issue to work on, such as anxiety or depressive symptoms, and starting there will allow you the opportunity to get to know your therapist, learn coping skills for managing distressing symptoms, and establish emotional safety before jumping into trauma work.
Hello there,No one has too many issues to address in counseling.
Once you start counseling, your therapist will help you identify which issues to start working on first and which are causing you the most distress.
Once you and your therapist prioritize your concerns, you can start to address each concern, starting with the one causing the most distress for you.
It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed.
But you are also a survivor and have the benefit of a long, stable marriage.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
A good therapist will help you to partialize your goals into smaller objectives and focus in on what's most pressing for you to address first in treatment.
Hello.
You may have heard the saying that counseling is like peeling the layers of an onion.
Whether a person comes to therapy with many issues on their heart and mind or whether he/she comes with something specific, one issue leads to another.
Please don't feel as though you have too many issues.
You are important and worthy.
On the plus side, you are a breast cancer survivor and have a wonderful marriage.
Seek the help that you deserve.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
And your perseverance will serve you well if you choose to engage in therapy.
The trauma and medical event you experienced topped off with chronic sleepless nights would lead to feelings of depression for many.
The emotional reaction you've had to these experiences sounds normal albeit troublesome and I would imagine intensely painful at times as well.
Therapy can help prioritize what is the most impactful issue you are grappling with.
I find in therapy that when the central issue is revealed, understood, processed, and understood again in its current context, many other areas of the person's internal experience improve.
It sounds as though something has prevented you from seeking help from a counselor in the past, and it sounds as though you are more seriously considering it now.
Therapy helps and it can help you when you're ready.
Thank you for sharing your history.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
It will help to prioritize what you would like to work on first in therapy.
Your therapist will create a treatment plan with you, which can always be changed while working together.
Therapy is a process in working towards your best life, and you deserve it.
Not at all.
Whatever issues you might have you can bring to the therapy room.
Remember therapy is about YOU, not your therapist.
You bring whatever you need to bring to the table.
Keep in mind these issues are likely related.
Remember you are a holistic being, more than just the sum of the parts.
Just like any system, when you move something in one area, things start changing in other areas as well.
Talk to your therapist to decide goals for counseling and establish priorities, and ENJOY THE RIDE.
Growing, flourishing, and finally letting go of what hurts can be a beautiful and exciting process.
You absolutely do not have "too many issues" for counseling.
Your reaching out to ask this question shows you have a resilient spirit.
Also, your happy marriage can be a support and strength to you as you embark on a counseling journey.
I would recommend that you find a counselor who specializes in trauma, sexual trauma and/or EMDR (a type of therapy that is proven to have a strong impact on healing from trauma).
Good luck!
I don't think you have too many issues for counseling.
If a client came to me for help with the same issues that you have listed here I would first want them to meet with their doctor to get a physical to rule out any biological causes to your depression, anxiety, and insomnia.
I would work with you on deciding which of these issues to tackle first.
I usually suggest starting with the issue that is easiest.
Reading through your symptoms I might choose anxiety to start with since you are in the early stages of it.
I like to give my client skills they can use right away, so I would focus on teaching you breathing exercises to manage the anxiety as well as cognitive restructuring so that when an anxious thought pops up you can talk yourself through it.
Once you felt that you had some control over the anxiety I'd start to work on some of your other concerns, but I would seek your input on what you felt like might be good to work on next.
My gut is that some of these issues would be resolved as you worked on others.
For example as you worked on your anxiety and began to process your trauma and as you began to work on self care and getting more sleep - your self esteem would probably improve.
I encourage you to meet with a therapist and ask them how they might be able to help you.
These are just some thoughts that came up for me on how I might help someone with the same or similar symptoms.
The way it goes is that all your issues are connected.
Once you work on one issue it will have a positive effect on all areas.
Slowly each issue is addressed and actually less issues will need to be addressed directly since resolving one helps your overall wellness.
So no, you do not have too many issues.
Don't give up.
Get help now and see how your life can change for the better.
I think this is a very common question that people who have never been to counseling before have.
There is a lot of anxiety in going to counseling for the first time.
This is normal.
In answer to your question, the answer is an absolute NO.
An important thing to remember about getting counseling is that it is a courageous first step towards hope and healing.
Getting help is like training to run a marathon, it is not a sprint.
You have shared a lot of issues that you are dealing with from your past, that are now negatively impacting your present, but I believe that in getting the right kind of help and support, none of them are impossible to overcome.
Part of the therapeutic process is defining and prioritizing therapy goals.
In collaboration with you, as a client, a therapist is there to help you with this process in determining what you would like to work on first.
Not getting counseling, based on the history you have shared, has the potential to put you more at risk for mental and physical health issues.
You are already seeing this happen as you begin to experience new symptoms, namely your anxiety.
In therapy, you will gain understanding and insight, as well as learn skills and strategies to manage the symptoms you are experiencing.
In conclusion, I would encourage you to reach out to a licensed counselor who has experience in treating trauma, grief/loss and will address shame.
These are three areas that I have found that gets to the core issues that are contributing to your depression and anxiety.
I believe you can get the help you need to find hope and healing.
Best of luck to you!
Hello, I'm so glad you decided to take the first step in opening a conversation first.
Deciding to go to therapy can sometimes be difficult for some, but with the right therapist, healing is possible and obtainable, even with what you've described.
To answer your question, no you do not have too many issues to go to counseling.
You've been through a lot and have been strong and at times it's helpful to have someone else to help you through it.
What I would say is to be sure and find a therapist who is experienced in sexual abuse and trauma overall.
But you absolutely do not have too many issues for counseling.
Please feel free to ask any other questions you may have regarding your situation and I hope you find the therapist you're looking for, there are many great ones out there.
Many of the issues you're experiencing may be tied together from the trauma.
Best Wishes.
Not at all my dear.
Human beings are complex creatures, and in my opinion, our issues interconnect in a very nuanced web between our levels of being (for example, mind, body, and spirit).
Everything you bring up affects all three.
The truly beautiful thing about the human body is that when you begin to work on one, the others improve as well!I would encourage you to seek out a counselor who's style and approach speaks to you and start with whichever issue feels most pressing to you.
A skilled therapist will flow with you at your own pace and make recommendations to other professionals, like physicians, holistic practitioners, EMDR specialists for trauma etc) as needed to complement the psychotherapy work you're doing with him or her to help you find the total healing you seek.
I wish you well on your journey!
Everyone has topics to discuss when they start therapy.
There is no correct number of topics.
youSometimes people go to therapy for one specific area of their life.
Not everyone has the time or interest to utilize therapy just when a significant topic arises in their life.
Since you are one person, no matter how many or few topics you would like to address in therapy, all the topics relate to you.
Possibly the result of your therapy will be more transformational than if you talked only on one topic.
Lucky you, to be on the cusp of clearing and resolving many vulnerabilities at once.
You will feel brand new by the time you finish your therapy work!
Answers about our inner lives are most successfully reached from a sense of feeling grounded in oneself.
First step is to accept your nervousness and restless sleep.
As often as possible, sleep during daytimes in order for your body to catch up on its need for rest.
Accept too about feeling down.
It is normal to feel down once in a while.
From this place of self-acceptance, trust any answers which come up to your mind.
Often answers about complicated topics come in small pieces, not all at once as a whole unit.
Also, your description about panic attacks is also completely normal.
They often arise unrelated to particular conditions at a given moment.
They are a healthy symptom your body is trying to expel bad feelings and does this by having the anxiety erupt at times.
So, self-acceptance, tolerance of being on a process of clearing out worn out emotional clutter, and sleep at odd times if possible, are all ways to stabilize yourself, which will also feel calm and good!
It could be really helpful to see a counselor/therapist about your increasing depression/panic symptoms.
Finding out the cause of depression/anxiety isn't always as straightforward as it seems, since both issues tend to become patterns we engage in rather than solely related to a specific trigger/reason.
For example, if I am feeling down about a particular circumstance in my life, then I start seeing life through this lens of feeling down, and typically I'll start to see a lot more that I get down about, and it can really build very quickly on itself.
Same with anxiety.
Obviously, this is a very simplified example and it can be very difficult to see how the pattern is maintained, but that's where working with a counselor/therapist comes in.
I would be curious about whether you can start to notice the initial sensations of panic, and if you can (through the panic attack) continue to maintain awareness of the actual physical sensations.
Even better if you can talk yourself through the sensations you're feeling - such as saying to yourself "Okay, I'm breathing really rapidly, and my heart is racing, now my palms are sweaty and my chest is feeling really tight.
Reminding yourself that it's just your body's reaction to stress, and while it might be overreacting right now, you're okay and eventually it will go away.
I highly recommend the SAM for Anxiety Management app for the anxiety piece, and I wouldn't be surprised if addressing the anxiety helped to address some of the depression too.
Have you used meditation or hypnosis.
Relaxing the mind and connecting with your true self is a great way to calm your thoughts and get to peace and calm.
Hypnosis and meditation have helped a lot of people with anxiety and depression.
Google hypnotherapists near me or write for a while about what is going on.
Working with a great therapist who can help you learn ways to cope might be beneficial to you.
Sometimes just the act of being able to talk about things with a nonjudgmental person helps take some of the burden off of you.
A therapist can help you change your thought patterns and teach you coping skills to reduce your symptoms.
Anxiety and depression is caused by ineffective functioning of the adrenals, kidneys, and the other systems that affects.
A basic protocol of natural health makes quick work of it (about 2-3 months-ish; maybe shorter with a good constitution, in your body.
Anxiety and depression are often linked.
I don't consider them as diseases.
Depression is a symptom of deep hurts to the sense of self that leaves a person feeling shamed.
Anxiety is a symptom of not being given the proper emotional resources to handle the problems of life.
It is also the result of being taught that life is a dangerous place that can't be managed.
Depression and anxiety can be disconcerting and disruptive to our lives in many ways.
I am sorry that you are suffering so much.
Depression and anxiety can arise due to experiences, genetics or a combination of both.
I like for my clients look at their issues as whole persons so I would also recommend these tips:Physical: regular exercise, healthy balanced diet, rest and sleepMental: how we think is how we feel.
How are you interpreting the events that are happening to you.
Try to interpret them in a less negative way.
Unfortunately we cannot stop our thoughts as our brain is always working.
If you can't see your issues in a different way then stop struggling and allow and accept whatever the unhelpful thoughts are.
Choose to take actions based on your values and what will give you a fulfilling life no matter what your thoughts are.
Remember, your thoughts have no power unless you act upon them.
Emotional: do not let feelings dictate your actions, even if something feels anxious take action again based on your values and how you want to live.
Social: connect with healthy friends and family that will be a positive support.
Take up some hobbies and recreation activities as well.
If things do not improve I would encourage you to make an appointment with a talk therapist and discuss these issues.
I would encourage you to also be open to consider an evaluation for anti-depressants with these issues as well.
If you ever feel like you might hurt yourself please call 911 or go to your nearest ER.
Life can bring us all kinds of struggles.
Depression and Anxiety are very common reasons people come into counseling.
Both can be debilitating.
Sometimes when life struggles and stresses build up anxiety and depression become prominent.
Learning tools to ride the waves of life is a core part of counseling.
If you are ready to manage the symptoms and come up with a plan visit staceybshapiro.
comfor more information.
Wanting to make changes and asking for assistance is the first step.
Overcoming anxiety and depression is not an easy feat to do on your own, especially if it's been something you have been battling for years.
There are some different routes you may go down in order to start the healing process:Therapy - find a therapist who has a lot of experience with anxiety and depression.
You can do this by googling "anxiety depression therapist " in your city.
CounselChat also has a directory of amazing therapists, as does Psychology TodayMedication - Depending on what other symptoms you may be struggling with depends on what medication you will be prescribed.
Be 100% honest with the doctor and ask about different side effects or potential risks associated with the medication.
You more than likely will be prescribed an SSRI.
Therapy & Medication - The outcomes are very good for those who decide to do both.
Medication can help level out out your mood and therapy can help you process through your emotions and keep you accountable for you goals , as you will be seeing your therapist more often than your psychiatristTherapy & Homeopathy - Homeopathy could potentially be a good tool to use alongside with therapy in case you are not interested in going down the medication route.
Arsenicum album is most commonly given to those who struggle with anxiety and depression.
The choice is yours.
My recommendation is to start with therapy and explore your options more in depth with your therapist.
First, be patient because anxiety and depression are rooted in a person's outlook on who they are and how they handle situations and relationships.
Changing these deep major structures in your life takes time to try new ways and see what develops, then fine tune accordingly.
Most commonly, anxiety and depression relate to one's self definition.
Reflect on your own opinion of yourself and whether you'd like making any adjustments to this.
Then figure out what stops or inhibits you from doing this.
Try new ways of thinking and interacting with other people.
The changed impression you make on others will influence your own view of who you are.
In America people take Pharma pills to not feel badly.
If you prefer to make natural, long-lasting change then reflect, read, try therapy if it feels right to you.
Eventually you will be better off this way than to take drugs to hide how you truly feel.
Your question is a fascinating one!As humans we have the ability to reflect on situations in our lives.
Even if nothing currently goes on in a particular moment, it's possible you're reflecting on a serious or upsetting matter.
And, our emotions linger within us.
Just because a particular moment feels calm, inside your feelings may be the sense of a strong unsettled emotion from the recent past.
Good for you to be aware of your own sensitivity to living with awareness of your moods and thoughts.
One thing that comes to mind is making a list of some things that happen each day.
It could be that there are things that are affecting how upset you are, but because so many other things are going on, you may not notice.
Another idea to try is to keep a list for a month of one good thing that happened each day.
This way, when you're having a rough day, you have a list to think of and take a look at.
Are you eating and sleeping in ways that are typical for you (typically at least two meals per day and roughly 8 hours of sleep that night (may be different depending on your age).
These two ideas are closely related to changes in your mood.
From where do you have support.
Friends or family?Can you take 5 or 10 minutes per day to do something that you enjoy?If you think back to the last time that you felt "content," what was contributing to that?Another possibility is to try to be mindful of things that you do every day.
For example, rather than eating a turkey sandwich as fast as possible on your lunch break, consider actually tasting it and enjoying it.
Also consider giving yourself praise for doing something well.
For example, when you finish your paperwork, take a moment to notice that and maybe reward yourself by checking your e-mail, reading five pages of a book, or something else that can be done quickly before you get back to your next task.
It's important to take a look inside and see what's going on with you to cause you to have these feelings.
Please contact us in whatever way is most comfortable for you and we can get you set up with someone who will help you figure out this space in your life.
Chronic pain at the back likely results from a few areas:L4-L5 kidney zone, most likely (lower back);Bone spurs, fused discs, and slipped discs, caused by connective tissue weakness, and calcium deposits used to neutralize highly acidic areas.
The 'depression' will evaporate when the chronic pain is drained out, through natural means;Pharmaceutical means will simply extend the pain and cause it to deepen over time, not solving the problem;Remember, medical doctors suppress, natural doctors cure.
Maybe if you started to address questions of an inner nature of what changed in your life as a result of the back problem.
To know your limitations and the areas of your life which they affect, will greatly contribute to stronger self-knowledge within you.
Greater awareness and sense of direction very often decreases depression.
If it is simply counseling that you seek, any number of faith-based outfits are very willing to listen and help out with these sorts of matters, free of charge :)Online messaging and social media is a secondary option, however this one may come with privacy concerns and consequences;If it were I, I would attempt to sweet-talk one or two counselors I come across to do a bit of work for folks who can't afford it :).
Look up online what the local hospital offers to people.
Also, google some of the key words you just wrote here, like depression and counseling, low-cost counseling.
Did your primary physician tell you their reason to not help you.
If not, then ask the person to tell you their reasoning.
Even if the specific doctor won't help you, by understanding their reason, you may be able to work with the answer you hear.
I would check out agencies that offer affordable counseling based on your income or very low cost counseling sessions, for example,, Pacific Clinics, Hathaway Sycamore, Pasadena Mental Health Center, Burbank Family Center.
If you google affordable or low cost therapy in your particular area you will find resources to help you.
First step always is to do a medical rule out so that you're sure the problem is psychological and emotion based, not a medical condition which requires care and attention.
If you are medically clear in the reasons for losing your erection, then reflect on what may be creating a loss in confidence in either who you are and what you're doing with your life, or whether your wife has these sort of problems within herself.
Often a problem transfers ownership of who shows it.
If you are a sensitive person its possible your erection problem reflects your wife's insecurities and self-doubt.
If she is someone who is reluctant to talk about feeling unsure then in a certain way by you showing a problem, she can avoid looking at herself.
There may not be a direct cause such as usually exists in a medical problem.
Medicine looks for symptoms to treat.
Our emotional lives are much more indirect.
If you feel stress at work or are unhappy in the place you live, for example, then your frustration may show up in your sex life.
Basically, do a broad inward search of your life and what it holds and maybe ask your wife to do the same.
You may clear the air within yourselves and between each other so the problem goes away.
When I'm working with men with this type of situation, I always suggest a medical examination to rule out any type of organic reason for a difficulty in maintaining interaction.
In cases where there is no medical reason for the loss of erection, I find that many men have a similar situation in experiencing negative intrusive thinking during lovemaking.
My counseling approach for this situation is to incorporate the use of mindful sex.
For starters, know that this is a normal experience for many men at some point in their lives.
While this can certainly cause some embarrassment, a diminished sexual esteem or relationship problems, it is important to know you are not alone.
I am going to move forward assuming that you have already checked with a medical professional to rule out any medical problems that may be related to this.
Assuming that is the case, for most this happens for two primary reasons.
It is either a short term biological shortage of blood flow to the penis.
This can be caused my diet, lack of exercise, even stress.
Another primary reason for loss of erections are anxiety.
Have their been recent relationship issues.
Are you feeling as though you aren't satisfied in the bedroom.
These are just a few aspects that can cause subconscious anxiety and loss of erection.
My suggestion to you would be to seek out a counselor that specializes in sexuality that can assist you in moving forward with this.
Best of Luck!
Erection maintenance is caused by connective tissue weakness as well as lymphatic stagnation of the area and accompanying channels.
A proper detoxification is necessary to reverse the stagnation and get things flowing again.
Lower circulation and pituitary might also be indicated.
Medical will likely not recommend anything useful in the long term (pharmaceuticals do not solve a problem, only suppress it; and, it will return again later and worse than before);Certain herbal protocols and natural protocols would be very warranted in getting things going again.
If you haven't already, please see a doctor.
ED can be caused by any number of physical conditions and you need to get checked out.
Once you have ruled out any physical issues that interfere with getting an erection, it's time to look for more subtle causes.
Unfortunately, you may have gotten yourself into a mind set of "I hope I can, but what if I can't?" which is certain to interfere with performance.
Again, rule out physical causes (can you tell I think that's important?), then talk with your wife about working together to find the right approach.
It might be a good idea, for example, to take the pressure off by enjoying each other without intercourse.
You can have great sex without penetration and you can have physical intimacy without sex, so slow down and experiment.
You might find more pleasure than you expect when you can relax knowing there doesn't have to be a "finish line".
Again, yes the third time, SEE A DOCTOR, just in case there's something going on.
Once you get the all clear, find joy and spontaneity with your wife again by being creative and pressure free.
Assuming there are no medical explanations for this issue, many men I've worked with on this come to see it as essentially a form of Anxiety.
There is a phenomenon called the Yerkes Dodson Law (see below; source: Wikipedia), which basically states that if we feel either too much or too little stress, pressure, or nervousness about a task, it will adversely impact our ability to do carry it out successfully.
The ideal amount of stress/arousal is right in the middle - not too little and not too much.
This applies to more things than we might often realize - from giving a presentation, to ordering food, to making a free throw, to driving, to sexual intimacy as in this case.
A common suggestion that many men find helpful is initiating open and honest conversations with their partners about this issue, and for a temporary period of time, agreeing to physical intimacy and sexual pleasure in other forms, and without the expectation of intercourse.
There are many ways to go about that (which are outside the scope of this blog article), but this can be a path to connecting intimately and renewing physical bonding without unhelpful anxiety - and over time, can lead back to intimacy in all the ways that have become elusive.
Best of luck.
It's fun to ride the roller coaster from time to time, isn't it.
:)But, it's also weary-making, and leads to drainage that no man or woman can hardly anticipate!Balance comes with proper understanding of the different bodies you possess and how they function.
And, to begin, we focus upon your physical, and move right up the latter to the spiritual, and begin cleaning you out.
Unbalance is an experience of blocked energies that should be naturally flowing (call them what thou mayest); when blockages are removed, what is naturally there flows, and flows beautifully.
Are you certain your highs and lows are directly related to your cycle.
It's possible that there are at least some contributing factors, even if they are as a result of hormonal fluctuations.
For example, at the start of your period, do you have that "I feel great" feeling, or are you tired and down.
Mid-cycle (assuming your periods are regular), do you find yourself napping or ready to run a race.
Either way, how you feel may be leading you to behaviors that contribute to your changes in energy and optimism.
Let's say that the few days before your period, you feel cranky, bloated and want salty food.
Your natural inclination might be to isolate, stay inside and eat chips.
The next day, you feel even more tired, cranky and bloated.
It STARTS with a hormonal symptom, but what you do with that can change how you end up feeling.
So if you notice feeling cranky, bloated and craving salt, what if you pull up a restorative yoga video online, spend an hour being restful and centered in your body and have a good meal with a healthy balance of fats, proteins and carbs, with fresh veggies and fruits before you turn in early to give your body the rest it is asking for .
That sets you up to feel MUCH better!And those "on top of the world days" - who doesn't love them?
But even those days, be mindful of how you are treating yourself.
Exercise for sure, but don't do twice the workout you normally would just because you can.
You might feel super energy and skip meals which sets you up for poor sleep and feeling crummy after a day or two.
All that aside, if you have a couple rough days before your period, pay attention to what is bugging you.
At the height of physical and emotional energy (usually mid-cycle/ovulation), the tide is back in and you don't see all that annoying stuff you saw before.
Since you have good energy at this time, take advantage of it by doing some "clean up" on the things you saw there when you felt crummy.
Maybe it's that conversation you have been putting off with your partner, or having the long-delayed closet clean out, or searching for a job that feels/pays/fits you better.
Whatever it is, those "PMS blues" may hold important messages for you.
If taking good care of yourself, staying tuned in to your needs and keeping an eye on the "tides" don't help, then see your doctor.
Something else may be going on - our hormones all work together like a symphony - it only takes one to be out of tune to throw the whole thing off!
Depression and PMS symptoms can be so hard to navigate .
Looking at this from a holistic standpoint can help you understand why you get these mood swings and what to do to balance yourself emotionally during this time.
As a woman, we experience peaks and dips during our hormonal cycles and right before menstruation, we tend to feel not ourselves and down.
The bloating and extreme cravings do not help either.
Making sure your schedule is light and you have things to assist you can be so helpful.
Different essential oils like lavender may calm you down, or orange which can uplift your mood.
Homeopathy can be effective and gentle during this time as well.
Birth control is known to help reduce the extreme spikes in hormones and can reduce your emotional and physical pain.
Perhaps even psychiatric medication like an SSRI can help .
If you are interested in going down the medication route, be sure to ask the doctor about potential side effects and risks .
Reducing your processed sugar intake may help a lot as well.
Exercising, spending time outside, practicing stress management and avoiding caffeine and alcohol can all be useful as well.
You may already be living a balanced life because you are aware of your ups and downs due to hormonal changes of your menstrual cycle.
As much as possible, schedule activities around your expected mood swings.
This way you'll avoid feeling even more tired from a busy scheduled during a low energy time in the month.
The hormonal cycle is normal.
Opinions vary as to taking natural, homeopathic supplements or Pharma drugs which will influence your cycle and make your mood more even.
There are side effects to at least the Pharma drugs, which is a consideration as to the value of taking them.
Reflect on which is your style of living and what will make you feel successful in handling this problem.
Sticking to a system which mirrors the type of person you are, means more than any one particular answer anyone gives you.
In a way, self-harm can present somewhat like an addiction.
According to new research within the field of neuroscience there is a valid explanation for this.
When a person cuts or uses other forms of self harm, the body produces endorphins to help make a person feel better.
If a person was dealing with depression or high anxiety, that might be misinterpreted by the brain as a way to help oneself feel better and a new neural network or map might form (addiction) that would utilize this new behavior.
Another way to look at it would be thru a behavioral lens, a positive reward for a behavior, even though the behavior has other long term negative consequences.
Consider working with someone who can both have you work on and address those items that trigger your behavior and the root causes, in this case sadness or depression, and second find someone who can help give you alternatives that take into account the neurological requirement by replacing the behavior with another behavior (such as snapping a rubber band on the wrist) and working to extinguish the unwanted behavior.
Someone who is trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy and/or Interpersonal Neurobiology would most likely have the skills and means available to address this with you.
Self-harm has a way of becoming a go-to method of coping.
When we get stuck using self-harm as a way to deal and manage emotions, when something serious happens it totally makes sense that that will be one the first things to go through the mind.
It is its own kind of addiction.
There is a therapy, DBT or, Dialectical Behavior Therapy, which focusing on giving you new tools to get through hard times, understand and manage your emotions, to stay present and to deal with relationships.
This one of the most effective interventions there is for self-harm.
If you are interested in DBT, reach a local therapist in your area and ask if they do DBT or can recommend you to a DBT program.
This can help immensely.
Self-harm recovery is totally possible, but it is definitely hard work!
This can be a difficult situation.
Even though that can be very helpful, emotional support animals are not generally protected in the same way.
You might not be able to make your landlord accommodate you.
If possible, you may want to consider a different apparent that is more animal friendly.
At present, the American Disability Association (ADA) only allows protection and guiltiness for Service Animals, which is fall under a separate distinction from Emotional Support Animals.
Emotional support animals are untrained animals (typically pets or other domestic animals) that provide wonderful services to their owners, and there are many benefits to having one.
Service animals who are trained to provide specific services for an individual with limitations that make them fall under what the ADA defines as "disabled" are protected under specific laws, and must be accommodated in public places where the human they serve is present.
While it may be beneficial to request that the therapist who "prescribed" the dog to you write a letter to the apartment manager, it sounds like the manager is aware of ADA guidelines, and the simplest course of action may be to find an alternative residence, if that is a plausible option.
Agree with the apartment manager's viewpoint that your disability is not a physical limitation.
Ask the manager if they'd accept an explanatory letter from a therapist who is licensed to diagnosis emotional disabilities.
If the answer is yes, then find a therapist who's willing to cooperate with what you need from them and find out this particular therapist's terms of working with you to compose such a letter.
If the manager tells you "no", then find out who is above this person or entity and find out how to formally introduce your request to the board or apartment owner, or whoever actually is the legal owner of the building.
This is tricky because there are different types of emotional support dogs.
The ones that are officially trained actually go through months of training and then are paired with someone for whom they perform specific tasks.
You may benefit from looking at the blog written by Valerie Parrott, who has an emotional support dog due to severe anxiety and panic.
Ouch.
It's really hard to deal with a spouse that isn't taking you seriously.
In this case, I would plan for and schedule a time to talk with him about this.
I would tell him that you need about 30 minutes to talk to him with minimal interruptions about something that is important to you.
Schedule a time, write notes if you need reminders about what you need to express, and tell him how you feel.
Ideally, you would focus more on I-statements instead of telling him what he is doing wrong.
For example, I feel ignored vs You always ignore me.
By focusing on how you feel, he is less likely to feel attacked and get defensive.
Some people go to couples or marriage counselling for help with communication.
Chances are there are things that BOTH of you do that hurts your communication.
Overall, try to talk to him directly and try not to get defensive.
If he continues to say, you're always sad - then stay calm, say "okay, can you help me understand that more?" or "That's interesting.
Tell me what you see.
Reach out to a couples counselor for more help with communication strategies.
Sometimes a 3rd party can help you both see things in a different perspective.
Hope this helps!
This is so hard.
It is hard for someone to understand what depression is without having experienced it themselves.
Unfortunately people without depression sometimes mistake it as feeling sorry for ourselves or just moping around, which is not what depression is at all.
Sometimes I think that it is easier for family members to see it as a choice than to admit that someone they love is hurting and they dont know what to do.
If he is willing, I wonder if there may be a depression support group in your area such as NAMI or DBSA where he could hear from from others living with depression and their families.
If not, I wonder if you all might watch a documentary together such as No Kidding Me Too or Call me Crazy.
If not that, ive sometimes encouraged folk to just leave some information on depression and how family can help like a pamphlet or handout on a table or around the house.
We tend to get curious and read things we find on the table.
Wishing you the best!
It can be hard for husbands to hear that their wife is unhappy.
By nature men tend to be more of the fix it type.
So if they are sad, they fix it.
If their wife is sad, they fix it.
He may feel helpless to help you and that may be why he is saying those things to you.
It's not that he doesn't care or that he doesn't take them seriously, he might just have no idea how to help.
I would start by making an appointment to talk with a therapist about your sadness.
Meeting with a therapist may help you to learn some tools and strategies that can help you to manage some of the sadness you are feeling.
A therapist can also help you to gain some understanding and insight into why you might be experiencing sadness.
Depression is not something you have to sit with, therapy can help.
Once your husband sees that you are being proactive in addressing your sadness/depression he will probably be more open to listening to you and supporting you.
He might start to have ideas and input on how you two can work together to change some of the situations or things that might be holding you back.
Oh dear.
From what you write, your husband doesn't have any interest to know about you and your sad feelings.
Stay clear in understanding that you already did your part by asking him to listen and care about the way you feel.
In this example, he told you he doesn't care.
Its up to him to open his mind and heart to you.
Depending on how motivated to continue asking him to hear you, try until you feel satisfied that you've given him enough chances to know who you are.
At a certain number of tries at this, you'll either have success or not.
Just don't try forever because doing so will increase your depressed feelings.
It sounds like you are noticing that you are drawn towards sad and negative content and it's hard to understand why.
This may sound counter-intuitive, but sometimes we do things that on the surface may look problematic (or even cause us some real problems) because it serves us in some unseen way.
A simple example would be somebody who is addicted to a substance; their addiction may be causing serious problems in their life, and they may even know it, but the addiction serves them by helping them to avoid painful feelings that they anticipate having if they quit using.
Now I am not saying that what you describe is an addiction, it is just a really illustrative example of the unseen benefit.
One thing I would be wondering about is what is the unseen benefit of seeking out sad and negative content.
I'd also be wondering what your relationship is to other feelings.
These are things you may benefit from exploring with a competent therapist.
I applaud your courage in asking this question to gain some deeper insight into what is happening in your life.
This is one of the most common things that I personally have seen in the population of individuals who suffer from depression.
It is often that I notice clients focusing on the negative to the complete dismissal of the positive when they are dealing with depression.
It is inspiring that you have noticed this in yourself because many clients are not aware that this is a pattern for them, or are not yet willing to face that depression has become a pattern they cling to.
Depression, if dealt with for extended periods of time, can become a way of life, an identity of sorts, that is very difficult to part from.
While you desperately desire happiness, who would you be without the depression.
Sometimes it is scarier to journey into the unknown (in this case, happiness), than it is to stay in the known, and the often times comfortable space of your depression.
Human beings, for the most part, fear and stray away from change in general, especially a change that is so impactful.
Allowing yourself to confront the possibility of change as positive with the support of a professional counselor is often extremely helpful.
Seasonal Affective Disorder (S.
A.
D.
) is a term that reflects how many people are affected by the changing seasons, especially fall to winter.
Everyone suffers with some form of this (lessened activity levels, increased isolation) while some find that this time of year can put them into a deeper depression.
If you have noticed that this happens frequently, there are some ways you can definitely help yourself going forward: Attend therapy to learn strategies and tools to help you to manage your mood.
It's important to stay within the therapy until you feel you have mastered these tools.
Push yourself to interact more with your social groups and other positive activities.
It's easy to go out and spend the day outside in the summer months, when the temperature is warm and the sun shines for long periods of the day, but it seems harder to find fun ways to spend your time when the temperature drops and darkness comes on so quickly.
Perhaps winter time could become the time of year where you and your friends have weekly board game nights, complete with hot chocolate and a fire?3.
You may want to consider the purchase of a S.
A.
D.
Light.
These are lights that expose you to additional ultra violet light to increase the vitamin D in our bodies, as well as the release of growth hormone (which releases when we wake up).
There are mixed reviews of these products, however, and they can be expensive.
I would suggest some holistic approaches, such as getting your Vitamin D and iron levels checked.
Make sure you are eating well, exercising, and getting outside when you can.
Take a trip to someplace warm if possible.
Use a sun lamp in the morning for 30 minutes to simulate sunlight.
Seek professional health to gain coping skills and other ways to manage symptoms.
Thank you for sharing.
It seems like since the "winter blues" happens to you every year it may also be impacting your quality of life and possibly relationships.
What you report sounds like you may be experiencing Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) and is quite common to many from about fall thru winter seasons; but, also can impact folks during the Spring and summer months.
The best care and treatment for SAD includes discussing it with your PCP (primary care physician), integrating light therapy (full-spectrum lighting) throughout home and workplace (where possible), psychotherapy, and possibly medications (, for example, Wellbutrin XL, Aplenzin).
Light therapy is very helpful.
You are not alone.
The name for the condition is Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD).
You might want to see a therapist to assist you putting in place a behavioral program to help change the way you feel.
I am glad that you are getting ahead of this by noticing this seasonal pattern to your depression.
Winter depression (seasonal affective) is something that affects a lot of people both people who also deal with other kinds of depression that happens to get worse in the winter as well as people who just deal with depression in the winter.
Light affects how our bodies release and absorb neurotransmitters such as serotonin and most believe that a major contributing factor for winter depression is that we get less light when it is colder outside and darker outside.
Exposure to light can make a big difference.
If you are someone who is awake during the day (not someone who works the night shift :) )---one simple change you can make is keeping your curtains in your bedroom light enough as to let some light in in the morning.
This will give you light right off the start of the day and can make it easier to get going in the morning.
Beyond this, keeping windows cleared from blinds so that you get that natural light or even taking a short 10 or 15 minute walk each day can get you both light and exercise to help fight off the depression.
Outside this, as others have suggested a light box is a popular method of warding off the depression however some of these may expose you to UV light and so this is something to check in with both with the light box manufacturer and with your doctor to make sure you have a good understanding of the risks and benefits for that.
Lastly, just making sure you continue to do things that lift your mood, that you have time with other people, and that you reach out if you do find yourself in a space of needing help are all things you can do to ward off the depression.
Wishing you well!
This is actually pretty common.
When winter hits, we tend to find ourselves huddled inside from the cold.
Not to mention the sun is out for a much shorter time.
It will be helpful to get as much sunlight as possible.
Get outside when you can.
Open up the blinds and drapes.
Use a sunlight if you want to (amazon has some for reasonable prices).
Stay connected to friends and family.
Try to engage in activities that make you feel positive, productive, and connected.
Cold climate is often accompanied by grey skies, snow and ice.
The elements along with wind, windchill and severely cold temperatures may lead to feelings of sadness, anxiety, and low energy.
For some people these symptoms occur each year from late fall to early spring and may be suffering from a condition known as Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD).
Whether you have been diagnosed with SAD or are finding yourself struggling with the winter blues‚ for the first time here are some suggestions for feeling better and staying healthy.
These foods and snacks are high in carbohydrates, sugar and fat.
Avoid overeating cookies, cakes and candy.
Chose vegetables, fruit and protein for snacks and plan balanced meals.
If you find yourself wanting to eat or snack throughout the day, ask yourself why you are eating.
Are you hungry.
Or Are you eating because you are bored.
AlcoholKeep in mind that alcohol is a depressant so consuming wine, beer or liquor when already feeling sad, anxious or depressed will only add to your symptoms.
Do not consume alcohol while engaging in outdoor activities such as snow removal, skiing, or ice fishing.
If you find yourself reaching for an additional glass of wine or beer be mindful and ask whether you are doing it due to boredom.
Instead of mindlessly taking another glass of alcohol, drink a glass of water.
Get out in the sunlight or brightly lit spaces, especially early in the day.
4.
Be activeIf you are unable to go to your favorite gym, exercise class or go for a run, find a way to stay active in your home.
There are a lot of short, instructional programs available on YouTube that you can follow to do some gently yoga, dance, or do strengthening exercises using only your body weight.
Reach out for help.
Confide in someone you trust about how you are feeling.
Do not hesitate to contact a counselor if you feel that you are becoming more depressed and anxious.
First of all, it is excellent that you are self aware and able to identify the pattern to your moods.
Many people suffer from the winter blues, which is called Seasonal Affective Disorder.
Some people notice that during the Fall and Winter months, they tend to struggle with signs and symptoms of depression such as sadness or hopelessness, lethargy, sleeping to much or too little, changes in appetite, loss of interest in usual interests, and possibly suicidal thoughts.
It would be best to consult with a therapist experienced in this disorder, as they will be able to guide you towards possible solutions such as changing negative thought patterns, light therapy, exercise, nutritional support, and possibly medication.
Many peope uffer from changes in mood when the winter time comes.
The amount of daylight hours decreases significantly.
Most times it is dark when you go to work and dark when you return home.
There are special lights that can be used during the winter season to counteract the "winter time blues.
Also, paying attention to self care.
Are you sleeping enough, attending to physical illness.
Exercising and eating a balanced diet.
Make sure to schedule fun activities and spend time with loved ones.
About 3 million people in the United States suffer from seasonal affective disorder.
Seasonal affective disorder or seasonal depression occurs during the same season every year.
You might have feel feeling depressed the past two winters, but cheered up during the warmer months.
Or you may have felt down during the summer.
Everyone could get seasonal depression, but it tends to be much more common in :People who have families who have SADWomenIndividuals between 15 and 55 years oldIndividuals who live in an areas where winter daylight time is very shortNo mental health experts are exactly sure of what specifically causes SAD, but many think lack of sunlight is a big trigger.
This lack of light could mess up your circadian rhythms or cause problems with serotonin which is the chemical that affects your mood.
You might be wondering if you have seasonal depression or SAD.
Here are the symptoms:Feeling grumpy, sad , nervous of having mood swingsAnhedonia or lack of pleasure in things you normally loveEating much more or less than usualGaining weightSleeping a lot more than you normally do, but still feeling sluggingDifficulty concentratingIt is so important to look at SAD in a holistic manner before getting diagnosed.
In addition to therapy, it's crucial to see your doctor so she or he can run blood tests to rule out any other conditions that may be making you feel blue.
One of these common ones is hypothyroidism or low thyroid.
At Makin Wellness, we could do the mental heath assessment .
TreatmentThere are multiple ways to help treat seasonal depression.
Light therapy can be used, but counseling is one of the most effective ways of treating SAD.
Cognitive behavioral therapy with a skilled therapist can help you learn more about seasonal depression , how to manage your symptoms and ways to prevent future episodes.
Medication can also be prescribed and taken to help alleviate some or your symptoms.
Antidepressants such as Zoloft, Effexor and Wellbutrin are most commonly prescribed for SAD.
Be sure to talk with your doctor and therapist about any side effects from your medication.
One theory is that instead of "fighting" your feelings, accept your sad feelings and work with them.
Feeling sad may open many doors to reflect and make peace with the source of your sadness.
Also, I believe fighting against the natural cycle of rest and hibernation may not even be possible to succeed.
Winter for most creatures is a time of withdrawal and slowdown.
Our bodies and moods are part of nature as well.
Fighting what is part of nature seems like a tiring fight which the person will lose.
Last point, there are the winter holidays to break up the dark and cold of winter.
Maybe you can invent some of your own winter celebrations so you'll have a few gatherings to look forward to hosting.
Sometimes its quite literally the lack of sunshine that can affect our mood - in these cases it can be worth experimenting with a sun lamp, to boost your dose of vitamin D, when the sun isn't naturally out.
Also consider, what is it that the change in weather, changes in your life.
If for example, when its sunny you are an outdoorsy, active person and when the weather changes, you're whole activity level changes along with it, you could explore how to get some of that activity replicated indoors in the winter months.
Change your total daily routine, different route, different lunch, different afternoon.
Sit outside for 10 minutes three times every day, use a therapy light during the day, aroma-therapy oils for stimulation, but keep your routine bedtimes and wake up times.
and exercise at least 3 times per week, if after several weeks you are not feeling better.
talk with your doctor.
Seasonal depression can be difficult due to the weather being a primary trigger.
Understanding that we have very little control over the weather, therefore we can focus on the things we can change.
Exercising, meditation, guided imagery, and deep breathing can be beneficial to combat seasonal depression.
It may help to join a support group and seek out therapy to assist you on this healing journey.
There can be lots of different factors contributing to this.
Here are some possible tips:Consider if you know anything about what specifically is making you feel sad.
If you're looking for activities because you cannot participate in what you like to do in the warmer months, consider finding some indoor winter activitiesConnect with others.
One idea is to join a group (such as a book club) that meets regularly.
This could give you something to look forward to regardless of the colder weather.
Enjoy the sunshine from indoors.
You may notice that sometimes looks are deceiving women is bright and sunny outside, but is also quite cold when you open the door.
If you are staying inside for the day, consider allowing yourself to enjoy the sunlight without specifically considering that it is also cold.
Consider using a light box.
Certain types of light boxes are designed to help with the "winter blues.
Recently, one of the nurse practitioners that I work with has been checking a lot of vitamin D and vitamin B12 levels and she says the lower levels of these vitamins can contribute to feelings of less motivation or energy than is desired.
Each of us has days when we are not thrilled about the weather and may be feeling sort of "bummed" or "down.
If you find yourself having these days frequently or for several consecutive days in the above strategies are not helping, consider talking with a therapist about more specific strategies that may be of help to you.
Also, because if everything you would see is likely to live in your area, they would be familiar with the weather patterns where you are and may have some tips that they use for themselves or With other clients.
Going through a divorce is often a very low point for the people involved.
Are you surprised that your soon to be ex doesn't help with your teenage daughter?Usually patterns and dynamics in parenting are not sudden developments.
Is it possible that what you're feeling now is more intensity to the stress of parenting by yourself, not that this is a sudden problem?This is relevant because you may be more familiar and more capable than you're giving yourself credit.
The lack of emotional support is definitely stressful.
Your parenting skills may still be at the level at which they were prior to the divorce.
Take your emotional weariness seriously and reflect on the various ways of stress relief which are available and interest you.
Give yourself extra time to rest, nurture yourself and be flexible in finding what feels right for stabilizing yourself.
Since you talk about your daughter and help in physical ways, if it is a matter of strength that you need, talk with your attorney so that the child custody agreement includes whatever is physically necessary in the way of strength, in taking care of your daughter.
The Courts are very good at making effort that the custody agreement offers proper care to the kids.
You are in the midst of a really hard time and it sounds like you have no help at all.
Search out a local support group through community counseling type centers.
If you can't find a group, at least get in to see a therapist who can help you manage stress and upset better.
Your sadness, depression and out-of-control feelings don't mean there is something wrong with you - they just mean that your circumstances are too big for your current resources to handle, so get some help.
Take care of YOU and you'll be able to get through this.
If you are a people-pleaser type or a natural caretaker, you can slowly "lose yourself" over time if you are always tending to the needs of others and neglecting yourself.
If this sounds like a familiar pattern for you, this may have happened without you even realizing it if you were raised in a family where you had to pick up the slack alot.
Maybe your parents were addicts or they might have even just worked all the time and you learned to "take care of everything" because that is what you had to do to help the family run smoothly.
Over time, a person who grows up in this type of environment learns that you put the needs of others before your own.
You might also be stuck in these types of patterns in intimate relationships as well; if you completely give yourself over to your significant other and you don't create a life for yourself with your own interests and supportive friends, you are at risk of losing what is unique and amazing about you.
If you grew up in a family where you learned this role out of survival or because it was needed to take care of your family, it's easy to re-create this in adult relationships.
In both scenarios, if there is no awareness that this "self sacrifice at the expense of others" is going on, your identity is shaped around being a caretaker/enabler/people-pleaser and down the road it can lead to depression, low self esteem, and a confused sense of self.
Basically, you spend so much time helping other people that you don't make time for yourself or create a life of fulfillment.
Before you realize it, you have been living a life for others instead of yourself and you have no idea who YOU are.
Supporting loved ones and friends is important and certainly admirable, but if you are always that person that rescues, those that rely on you begin to take advantage of you and they will suck you dry if you let them.
In conclusion, learning to set boundaries with those in your life that are too needy becomes a really important part of the process when you begin to recognize that you are unhappy and unfulfilled in life.
It sounds like you may be at that crossroads right now.
Take one small step at at a time.
Identify the worst offenders in your life that suck time and energy, and limit your contact and/or set some strong boundaries with those people so you can refocus and do some soul-searching.
Meanwhile, engage in pleasurable activities with people you enjoy being with, get yourself outside in the fresh air, get some good sleep, and eat some nourishing food!
Give yourself credit for what you already know.
For instance, you do know that you're unsure about your life direction.
Take off any pressure on yourself to decide an answer in a certain amount of time.
Inner reflection work takes time and has its own course.
Trust that answers will show once you've done the work to understand yourself and circumstance, and the relationships in your life.
From what you describe, your interest is in a broad scope life change.
One direction is to start with only one specific part of your life you would like to change.
By examining one area in detail you will gain self-trust and confidence in handling your life.
And, you will have clarity as to which area to change first.
Thank you for sharing.
It can be very disorienting not to know what you want and where you are headed.
Sometimes we are so focused on something we haven't achieved yet or on comparing ourselves to others that we lose touch with what we actually want and need.
At times like this, it's important to go back to basics.
Try out this simple exercise, take a few minutes to write down all your present responsibilities.
For example: make meals, complete homework.
Then in the column next to it, write down the things that you do for yourself to recharge yourself and to enjoy your time.
Is your list of responsibilities way longer than your list of stuff you do for yourself.
It is easy to get lost in the sea of responsibilities and disconnect from what you want and need.
To fix that, write another list of things that you enjoyed doing in the past for yourself and start incorporating them into your schedule on a regular basis.
This will help you re-connect with yourself, and bring focus and clarity to your life.
Check this blog out: Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listHope you find a few nuggets of helpfulness in this.
It sounds as if you would benefit from talking with a local mental health professionals so you can discuss some details.
Having said that, I wonder if you could consider how you would define yourself to someone who doesn't know you.
For example, honest, adaptable, fun-loving, dependable, compassionate, open-minded, dedicated.
There is a list of negative ones here too.
If you're going to use those, try to use three positive ones for each of the negative ones.
You could also try asking yourself what you love about yourself and/or what others love about you.
Sometimes it's easier to consider what others see as our positive points and if this is difficult for you, try asking someone who you trust to help you with the list.
The idea here is to look at your relationship with yourself.
I don't mean this in a way that you would be talking to yourself and receiving answers, but rather looking at yourself in a way that you deserve the same kind of loving and compassion that you give to others or want others to have.
I'm also curious as to whether you are eating and sleeping okay, as these things can really affect your focus and many other changes, such as differences in your emotions.
Also, you saying that you are struggling to put things into perspective leads me to believe that you are going through some things right now that are not typical for you, if so, consider from whom you have support and the ability to talk about what you are going through.
Sounds like a sign of great unhappiness, or sadness, or insecurity.
The real way you'll find out what this feeling is about is to ask yourself your own question.
Inside you are the only one who will feel when you discover the true answer to your question.
Everyone feels some amount of discontent in their lives once in a while.
Its normal to not feel entirely happy all the time.
Try to accept your unhappiness as motivation to learn more about who you are, what you like, whom you like.
Study yourself bc this way you increase the chance to find a road which feels right and happy.
Trust and believe your own feelings.
Emotions are real and reflect how someone feels about a situation.
Since you're sad about losing a loved one, be patient w your feelings about this.
Basically, be guided by how you feel and eventually you will feel different emotions which I hope will be happier ones.
You're probably not going to like my answer.
Your question says a lot about what YOU want rather than what she wants or what may be best for her.
Sometimes, what's best for a person is the hardest thing to do, and may be completely opposite of what YOU want.
Addictions don't happen in a vacuum.
If you've had any experience with addicts at all, then I'm sure you've heard the term "enabler".
A lot of the times, when people think they're "helping", they're actually enabling the addict to continue their self-destructive behavior.
Tough love and clear boundaries are needed in a lot of situations, but especially with addictions.
Family and friends are often the biggest contributing factor to someone choosing to use/drink, continuing to do so, or relapsing back into it.
You said she recently quit.
You said she is depressed.
She wants to move.
When a person receives counseling for addictions, they are encouraged to make changes like this.
They need to break the habit, and this means removing people from their lives at times.
It means moving to new locations.
Anything that may trigger a relapse needs to be identified and removed.
Not only that, but the addict needs to do a lot of personal reflection to figure out WHY they use/drink in the first place, and not only break the physical addiction to it, but deal with whatever is the root cause that led them to use in the first place.
She may need some time alone to figure out who she is as a person, time to make some decisions for herself and do what she needs to do to be healthy.
Don't pressure her to stay.
Let her have the freedom to do what she needs to do.
If she stays, the decision needs to be hers and hers alone.
It doesn't need to be made under pressure.
That will only lead to resentment.
Support her, but don't try to change her or make her do anything, especially for selfish reasons.
Let her go.
It sounds like she needs some time to focus on herself right now.
It wouldn't be a bad idea for you to do the same.
I would say talk to her about her depression.
The best thing you can do is let her know that you are there for her as a support system.
I would encourage her to talk more if it helps and encourage her to get move involved in doing activities she likes to do.
Also, getting connected in a community of people is important to help with feeling depressed.
Encourage her to speak with a therapist or counselor to address her depression as she has made a major change in her life by deciding to stop drinking.
She may believe moving is the best to help with this.
You can share with her that you want her to stay and express to her how you feel.
Ultimately, you will have to respect her boundaries and the decision she chooses to make.
She may want to move and this may be what she feels is best for her life.
If she does choose to move that will be her decision.
It sounds like she is trying to do what is going to make her happy.
Maybe staying in the city she is currently in is causing her more feelings of sadness.
People often have very different values and opinions when they are drinking excessively and when they stop drinking so much.
Did the two of you share drinking as an activity.
If yes, then did you stop drinking too?Often when partners meet each other as drinking buddies when one gets sober, the relationship ends.
Once the terms of any relationship changes, one possibility is that it dissolves.
The best way to go is to start the conversation of what you genuinely want.
This is the only way she'll really know your thoughts.
Ask her to give serious consideration and discussion over at least a few weeks or months, to moving away from you.
This is a fair request since you are in a relationship.
If she's changed so much by giving up drinking, which is possible, that she no longer wants to be in relationship to you, then you are better off being without a drinking gf, even if the truth she delivers is a hurtful one.
After stopping the abuse of alcohol, depressive symptoms are common.
She may benefit from exploring why she wants to move and see if she would still want to move if she did not feel depressed.
12 step meetings can also be helpful.
You should start by speaking with her about what has her so down.
Have their been some significant events in her life that have affected her.
Have their been significant events in your relationship that can be affecting you both.
If she just stopped drinking, she may be struggling to finding an alternativeand healthier behavior.
This is something the two of you can explore together.
Also, if need be perhaps she can speak to a therapist to discuss her feelings about quitting alcohol.
It sounds like you really care and right now she could use all the support she can get despite her pushing you away.
Each person handles themselves differently in any situation.
Since you are willing to speak about how you feel, keep looking for blogs and forums on whatever topics you feel most describe your current circumstance.
Your mother and sister, even though they are family seem to prefer the opposite method to yours.
Find your own path of supportive other people and possibly a therapist.
This way you'll have understanding and validation which your mom and sister don't want to give you right now.
It sounds like you have a lot of weight on your shoulders.
I'm not sure what you mean when you say you're not stable and you are breaking down.
If you are crying because you're sad, that is okay.
If you are crying a lot or having trouble eating or sleeping, that's different than just crying sometimes because you are sad.
It may be helpful to talk with a local mental health professional in your area.
They can help you to figure out what you could do differently to have the role in your family that you would like while also supporting yourself and what you want.
Good for you on being sensitive to your human need for personal evolution.
Wife and mother are meaningful positions.
And in your case, in order to feel your own growth, other areas of who you are would like your attention.
Give yourself time to allow your interest to wander in order to find the area of growth which will satisfy you.
Just like you know now that you'd like more than your current situation, trust yourself to know you will also know when you've arrived at another road you'd like to take for your own happiness.
Being a parent can be all-consuming.
And there are more societal pressures on mothers to be everything to their children and families.
In that effort to be everything (cook, housekeeper, planner, social organizer, teacher, etc) it can be easy to forget about being you.
We can certainly acknowledge that becoming a mother likely means giving up or sacrificing parts of yourself for motherhood.
There are parts of becoming a mother that can be wonderful and magical, and parts of it that can be just flat out hard.
I think it is very important however, for all parents to ask for what they need and to carve out the time to nurture their individuality.
This may not only be supportive to you, but it sets a great example for your kids about how to advocate for their needs, and teach them about the depth and interests of their mother.
It is not easy being a wife and mother.
You have shifted roles in your life.
You went from having a career to focusing on your family.
Transitioning can be hard, especially when we feel we gave something up that we really wanted.
I want to acknowledge you for wanting to be the best wife and mother you can.
I think it is great that you are self-aware and want to work on this.
Feeling "unhappy and trapped" may also mean that you are believing these negative thoughts are absolutely true.
We have lots and lots of thoughts throughout the day.
Sometimes we pay a lot of attention to some and some we ignore.
Right now these thoughts are getting a lot of your attention and perhaps you are thinking because you are thinking them they are true.
Is it really true that you trapped.
You also said that you have an amazing life.
It doesn't sound like you are only having negative thoughts.
You have some positive ones, too.
However, you are giving a lot of weight to the negative thoughts, more weight than the positive ones.
I also wonder if you are struggling with the fact that you are even having this thought.
One thing that can be helpful is to recognize that you are having a thought, that it is a negative thought, that thinking it does not make it true, and to let it go.
This is the basis for mindfulness work that can be really helpful.
It is a great place for you to start so you can balance out your thoughts and emotions.
Best of luck to you!
It sound like there are some parts of your life that you really enjoy it and also some things that you wish were different.
You say you feel like nothing more than a wife and mom, so I wonder if you could make a list of what else you are (friend, daughter.
).
I also wonder if you could list your positive attributes or skills.
I don't know what you gave up, but I wonder if there is some way that you could spend an hour or so a week working on things that you like and/or spending some time with what you did before you had children.
For example, if you're missing a certain part of your career, maybe you could work with your husband to come up with a plan where you could do whenever that is for one day a week.
There are often a lot of small changes that can lead you in that direction.
Of course, that is assuming that you want to continue being involved with what you were doing before.
If not, what else do you want to do.
What is it that makes you feel happy.
What do you look forward to.
Remember that looking forward to having an hour or two where you can do something for yourself does not mean that you are not a good mother or wife.
These ideas can coexist.
Can you talk with your husband about how you are feeling.
Do you have trust for one another with feelings such as these?
Thank you for asking this important question.
I find that there are three steps to getting ready for treatment.
Step one is expressing interest in wanting to receiving treatment for the outcome of positive behavioral change.
Congratulations you did the first step.
You are showing your readiness to start counseling by asking this question.
Now the second step is to find a counselor who specializes in treating clients with Anxiety and Depression.
The therapeutic orientations I have found to be helpful in treating clients with Anxiety and Depression are a combination of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy with Mindfulness, and Solution Focused Brief Therapy.
Receiving meditation for your symptoms if part of the treatment, and the other part is receiving counseling to increase your resilience for future events.
Research has found that medication and psychotherapy treatments together shows the most effective outcome for Depression.
The third step is to increase your positive self-talk to motivate yourself to attend treatment.
As counselors, we are aware of the anxieties and fears that are associated with talking to a new professional for the first time.
However, remind yourself that you are doing this to improve your well being.
I hope this was helpful, and good luck with your treatment journey.
"Certainly counselling can help.
however, there is a caveat, namely, you will need the right counsellor with the right approach.
This leads to two questions: 1) What are the identifiers for the right counsellor, and 2) What is the right approach?1) What are the identifiers for the right counsellor.
The right counsellor will almost certainly have a lot of experience.
He or she will have done a lot personal work and have an ongoing practice of inner work both on their own and with the support of an experienced therapist.
This person will be viewing you as a human being with challenges, not as a diagnostic category.
He or she will be willing to work with you over an extended period of time and have experience doing such work.
Further they will be well versed in approaches that are responsive to you in the moment and overall.
The in-depth work will be collaborativel designed in an ongoing way that is responsive to you, the moment, your overall life experience, and their in-the-moment experience.
It goes without saying that you will subjectively evaluate the felt sense of connection with this person and the feeling that they are invested in their work with you, value you as a human being, and value the connection.
As well, it is crucial that you feel this connection and that your therapist 'gets you.
' 2) What is the right approach.
As Carl Jung stated, ""When the doctor sits down with the patient he (or she) must drop all theories and learn the theory of this person.
" The approach must include a bond between you and your therapist that is in a continuous process of development, attention to pre-verbal imprinting, development of awareness ability, ongoing development of the ability to attend to and stay with inner experience, development of a process orientation, attention to egoic structures that were seeded from the earliest days in the service of perceptions of threats to needs being met, identification of current egoic states and work with these inner selves and their relationship with each other to facilitate movement from developmental points of arrest, increased ability to access and contain non-ordinary states of consciousness, attending to what is, and working with this in the service of moving towards optimal human development.
depression is generally experienced as the system shutting down.
anxiety is a signal that something is wrong.
anxiety is not the problem.
it is a sign that there is a problem.
the core of these issues is a lack of inner security that is the outcome of insufficient bonding.
the work of psychotherapy is to establish an environment and relationship that will facilitate work with the bonding ruptures and re-initiation of the developmental process that stopped at an early stage.
My initial response: consider a more comprehensive MH assessment to determine other factors.
A medical evaluation is warranted to rule out poor health issues.
Blood work is helpful.
Review what hadn't helped.
From whom do you get anti-depressants?This person should be talking with you to know whether the pills are helping or not.
Trust your own instinct that the pills aren't helping you.
Pills work differently for everyone and not all people feel better from them.
It is also possible the particular pills have lost their effectiveness because after around six to eight months, this usually happens.
Try to understand what is depressing you.
This is slow work since you may have many theories.
Just by addressing your own emotional needs and life structure in a caring and respectful way, may improve your mood so that you'll feel less depressed.
From the little bit you wrote, my guess is you haven't figured out where and how to lay down your own set of roots.
Usually people who have a university level eduction are old enough to work in order to support themselves.
Unless you have a medical condition which limits or prevents you from working a full-time job, would you guess that the effort and thought involved in deciding in what professional area and geographic location to look for work, would offer you a way to establish your identity?My suggestion is to pay more attention to your own likes, dislikes, and interests.
To know these areas more deeply would define the type of people with whom you identify, have a common interest and with whom you'd like to socialize.
The more you realize who you are, the easier time you'll have to find like-minded others and feel securely at home with them and yourself.
Again, if you have a medical disability or condition which prevents employment or easily socializing with other people, then this advice would need to be modified for your specific strengths.
For some people, having a sense of belonging takes some time.
You mentioned that you have an education and some basic daily needs.
I wonder if you may be able to look at your relationship with yourself and what makes you feel happy, safe, and having a sense of accomplishment.
If you have those feelings, I wonder how you define trust and who you trust.
You say you have a good time with people who are "supposed to be close," so I wonder what keeps them from feeling close.
I have also wondering if you have been emotionally hurt in the past, and if so, you may have some protective defenses that you use (maybe on purpose, maybe not) to protect yourself from being hurt again.
Remember that this idea comes in degrees where you can be more perfect in certain situations and a little less in others.
Being emotionally protected is on a spectrum or continuum, where you can make an infinite amount of adjustments or changes with different people and situations.
I also wonder what it is that you want in your "home," and how you define it.
Consider giving yourself permission to think about how you would define your perfect home in a world where there were no realistic restrictions (such as money or location).
After you have that, consider what parts of that you can have.
Perhaps there is a small part that you could make a reality within a week or so.
Thank you for reaching out.
If this continues to be difficult for you, consider seeing a local mental health professional so you can discuss some more specific details.
First of all, I can tell that you really care about your friend and I think it's great that you are reaching out with your concern.
It's hard to determine whether your friend would meet the criteria for an official diagnosis of depression without working with him, however, whether he does or not, therapy may be beneficial for him in working through these difficult feelings and relational challenges.
Unfortunately, you can't make your friend get help.
He will ultimately need to make that decision for himself, however, you can talk to him about your concerns and your hopes that he will reach out for help.
Maybe your thoughts require your attention and the best course would be to pay attention and follow them!If you're in an especially stressful or uncertain time in your life, then the best way through is to understand the tension you feel.
It keeps trying to get you to know whats going on deep within you.
Anxiety is a sign of stress and weariness.
Your thoughts are a chance to simply rest and know what they would like you to know.
Then, when that process is finished your anxiety will no longer be necessary and will most likely leave you alone.
I imagine that it's pretty disconcerting to feel as though you lost yourself.
When you said that you are jaded, I'm not sure whether you mean that you are jaded toward someone, something, life in general, or some combination thereof.
One of the difficult things about anxiety is that anxiety can lead to more anxiety because of being concerned about having another panic attack.
Consider remembering that panic attacks usually only last a few minutes and the reason they don't go away right away is because of the way your brain releases chemicals because some part of your brain is reacting as if you are in danger in some way.
As far as finding yourself, you may consider looking at what parts of each day you can control as a way to stay centered.
You could also focus on something that makes you feel happy and/or comfortable.
You may also consider the list of values here to give yourself an idea of what is most important to you, what it is that you are living by now, and what values you would prefer to live.
"Feelings are real, is very unlikely that you are making them up since they are a response to the thoughts in your mind and your daily experiences and interactions.
Often we assume that feeling sadness is bad and that we should only feel happiness and joy; but all feelings have a purpose: joy, sadness, anger, frustration, excitement, anxiety, among others.
Is not healthy to experience the same feeling for a long time, so we should learn to identify what causes them and how to process them so you can navigate through life experiences with more ease.
I am a Licensed Professional Counsellor in Texas, currently providing services in West Houston.
You may reach me at 787-466-5478 to schedule an appointment.
Yo soy una Consejera Profesional Licenciada en Texas y Puerto Rico, veo clientes en el este de Houston y proveo servicios de tele terapia.
Maybe right now it is time for you to rest before the next wave of new activity comes along.
To have "no interest" may mean you are already so saturated with recent situations and their meaning that you are naturally withdrawing in order to regain your energy.
Any diagnosis is limited in its usefulness.
Knowing the name of some typical ways you may feel, think and behave, doesn't help you or anyone to understand why the person is the way they are and how to change any of these characteristics.
Both self-diagnosing and being diagnosed are equally unhelpful to know why you are the way you are and what to do about it.
Consider yourself a person who wants to find a better way to be who you are, and this will get you further with better results than to read a list of descriptions which all are very indicting and negative sounding.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
Self-diagnosing is something that we all do about one health issue or another.
Taking a guess about what may or may not be happening to us is completely normal, however the actual clinical diagnoses of a mental health disorder requires a licensed mental health professional.
Here are a few reasons for this: Making a clinical diagnosis often requires other things besides matching up the symptoms of a disorder.
To come to a diagnoses for any of the things you mentioned, a counsellor would consult theDSM, but they may also use some type of screening tool, assessment or scale.
Many disorders have similarities and it requires someone with training to tease out the differences in the symptoms.
Our judgement is sometimes off when it comes to assessing ourselves.
We really can't be objective.
Something as serious as determining a diagnosis really needs to be done by someone who has that objectivity.
In addition, once you know your diagnosis, treating it usually requires help from a professional.
Sometimes the symptoms of a mental health disorder makes self-diagnoses impossible, in and of itself.
For example, someone could be having hallucinations or delusions and not realise it.
That would clearly make it impossible for them to diagnose themselves.
There are many examples where something like this could happen with different mental health disorders.
There are other reasons, but these are three important ones.
Now, does this mean that you are wrong about your diagnosis.
Maybe not.
You may be correct.
But, it is important to get this confirmed by a professional mental health clinician.
If a disorder is then found, you can begin to talk about treatment.
Hope this was helpful.
Be well.
Definitely it is sad to lose friends who are a regular part of daily life.
How did you meet the two friends who just moved away.
Its possible that you could look for similar situations and see if anyone catches your interest to know as a friend.
Keeping in mind that friendship is based on trust and common interests, and that these qualities require time to observe and develop, think of what you can do to keep happy while these paths unfold.
In addition to being open to meeting new friends, involve yourself in projects from which you'll feel satisfied by your own results.
I am so very sorry for how pressured and sad you feel right now.
Definitely all family members have an effect on the other ones.
From what you write, your family members are not considering the effect their negative comments have on you.
Also, keep in mind that each person is responsible for deciding to argue or find a different way to discuss a problem.
You are not in control of the other people in your family.
More likely they take the easy way out and blame you for what they don't want to know about themselves.
Stay aware that the family's decision to target you doesn't mean that you are doing something wrong.
Certainly your existence is not wrong, which is the degree to which the unfairness seems to have spread.
What to do about it is read about family systems to see more explanations on how you are being unfairly treated.
Also stay in touch with friends bc these are the people who value and respect you.
One way to know yourself a little better and why the dynamics you describe take place, is to understand the particular dynamics of your life context.
Look at your major areas of where you spend your time, whether you are happy with the people with whom you socialize, how you feel toward family members and how they seem to feel toward you.
If you examine your relationships and life this way then you may start to notice areas where you have some control or at least a say in how your life is going.
If you are socializing among people whom you don't like, have a job you don't like and your family mistreats you and you mistreats them, for example, then anxiety and depression are an understandable natural result.
If you make improvements in your life and relationships, even tiny improvements and even the effort and intention to improve, you may find your anxiety and depression dissipating.
People usually feel their worst when they feel lack of control in their life.
Look for ways you can regain and/or strengthen yours.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
I am very sorry that you are struggling.
I have a few thoughts and perhaps some of my colleagues will add something else.
Depression and anxiety can both be chronic conditions, as you have experienced.
This means that they may always require treatment in order to have some kind of relief from them.
Treatment could mean medication or some kind of counseling.
Some people may take medication for the rest of their lives.
Some people may go to counseling at times when the depression and anxiety worsens.
As you mentioned, sometimes the symptoms improve for a little while, but they can also come back.
When they do, it is important to talk to your medical provider if you are getting medication, and/or to go back to your counselor and talk to them about the symptoms that have returned.
Skin picking and some other behaviors are not uncommon for people who are experiencing something like anxiety.
Many people report that they do this when they feel anxious, and some say it calms them down.
It is not really a surprise that you are constantly trying to change things and even starting fights to do so.
These are ways to try to avoid, escape and distract yourself from the feelings of anxiety and depression.
That is a very normal thing to do.
Nobody likes these feelings, and so distraction is something we naturally try in order to get rid of them.
The problem is that things like distraction and escape do not work as a long-term solution.
In fact, they usually make things worse for many different reasons.
Depression and anxiety can be treated, but it is likely something you will need some help with.
I would recommend finding a counselor who has experience with anxiety and depression.
Medication can be helpful, but I still recommend counseling.
The reason for this is that the medication can help with symptoms, while the counseling can address the symptoms and provide you with very helpful skills.
You have already taken the brave first step of making the decision to heal from it and find a professional that will help you do so.
There are lots of different options nowadays for therapists, as you can see them online or in an office.
My biggest tip for you is to use Psychology Today or Counsel Chat to find a therapist.
Enter in your zip code and you will find many different therapists you can talk to .
Be sure to find someone that you most resonate with and ask them any questions you may have.
Many times, therapists will provide free consultations and this can be a great opportunity to see if you are a good fit.
The first step, which you've taken, is actually wanting to talk to someone.
It's a great sign that you are seeking to reach out for help.
And there are therapists everywhere (there are even therapists online, so you don't have to be that close to them or their office.
)There are several sites that I refer people to to begin the process of looking for a therapist.
I usually have them start with psychologytoday.
com.
Once there (there is a therapist directory), you can narrow choices down by ages that they work with, insurance they accept, depression as an issue they focus in.
You can also narrow down by therapist's modality, but that can get complicated if you aren't too familiar with the various theoretical approaches.
It's important that you find someone that you feel understands your situation.
That might mean that they identify an issue you are having in their profile, or on their professional website.
But, you should try to meet a couple of different therapists if you aren't quite sure.
It can be challenging that first session, but your best (note, not "THE best") therapist will help you feel comfortable (or as comfortable as possible, given therapy can be uncomfortable especially at first) and understood from the get-go.
I have found that asking friends or family for names and recommendations Is also a common way to find a therapist, because it can come from a trusted referral source.
But remember that we are all different, so what works for one might not always be a good fit.
And again, it could take a couple of first sessions with different therapists to know if someone is a good fit (sometimes, it can take a few sessions.
) And if there is no one around that can give a name or two, then searching online is quite common and can yield positive results.
And try not to give up.
Finding a therapist is not easy, but finding a good one for you is extremely rewarding.
Hi,Reaching out here is a great start.
I recommend looking for somebody in your area that works with people experiencing depression.
After you've chosen somebody to try, feel free to call them for a consultation.
A lot of counselors and therapists offer free consultations, and remember that your counselor is working for you, so make sure they are a good fit.
I hope this has been of some help.
Hang in there.
Feeling depressed sucks but talking with someone can really help - so its awesome that you're already trying to figure out how to find that person.
Tons of good suggestions already but to add my two cents.
If you have health insurance your insurer might be able to make recommendations as to therapists covered by your plan, or if you happen to be in school, the school itself should be able to connect you with either their own counselor or a center that they recommend nearby.
Finding someone can take a few calls or a bit of research so if you need some immediate support, or find yourself having thoughts of hurting yourself.
Great that you realize talking with a professional counselor about how you feel, would be helpful!If you'd like a very fast response by phone, then google "depression hotline" for where you live.
And, if you have a specific topic which upsets you then google around with this topic to see if there are services specific to your interest.
If you've got time to invest in looking for the best fit therapist for yourself, then google "therapy' or "therapist".
There will be many, many names which come up.
I know I sound like I work for google only it is the easiest way to find lots of information.
I send you good luck!
If there is no one in your life with whom you feel comfortable, I would recommend identifying someone on this site, psychology today or goodtherapy.
org who is in your area, then give that therapist a call to see if you would be a good match.
Depression has many different signs and symptoms and looks different for every person.
Often times people think depression is more about feeling "sad," but depression can, in fact, express itself through irritability (or bad mood as you say) and lack of energy.
According to the DSM-V (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), depression includes the following symptoms:-Depressed mood-Irritable mood-Decreased interest or pleasure in activities you usually participate in or enjoy-Significant weight change or change in appetite-Change in sleep (insomnia or hypersomnia)-Psychomotor aggitation or retardation-Fatigue or loss in energy-Feelings of worthlessness or excessive guilt-Diminished ability to concentrate or indecisiveness-Thoughts of suicide or planThe great news is that there are many ways to improve depressive symptoms.
If you are up for it, perhaps the best place to start is by seeing a physician or a therapist who can help determine how severe the depression is and can suggest methods of addressing the depression that fit your lifestyle, values, and capabilities.
Good luck!
"I wouldn't necessarily say you are clinically depressed based on that first paragraph in your question.
Because that could describe more introverted behavior (people who feel more energy from a more internal approach as opposed to those who feel more energy from being among others.
) It is more in the second paragraph that I would be inclined to say that further exploration is definitely needed.
The diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder is more than just those two symptoms, but there are more mild forms of depression that can be equally damaging to someone if left untreated.
However, one of the trickiest parts of this is that someone who feels they are not worth knowing may also believe they are not worth having a therapist know them, and even less worthy of being helped.
Do you feel that might be you.
If so, could we acknowledge that as a part of the big picture, and all wrapped up in these feelings about yourself, and realizing that thoughts and feelings aren't always rational (in that you are worth getting the help).
My recommendation just from the information would be that you seek out a supportive, listening ear in the form of a therapist, who can allow you the space to express some of these difficult experiences, and help you name FOR YOURSELF, what your struggle is.
To empower you to name it for yourself, as opposed to everyone labeling and/or judging you for it, might be an extremely worthwhile start for you.
Hi,Depression can look different for everybody.
It sounds to me like what your family is trying to tell you that they are worried about you, and think this behavior might be a result of depression.
If what you are experiencing seems fine and normal to you, it may be nothing to worry about.
It is very common to have thoughts of doubt about yourself and your abilities, and it may help to open up about those thoughts to people you trust.
Developing relationships with friends and families can be a very rewarding experience, but it can take a brave person to reach out!
If we were in my office together, I would offer that most likely you are feeling somewhat depressed.
It's most important for me to impress that you "don't have to live like this.
Other helpful information: Have you experienced similar symptoms before.
Anyone in your family been depressed before.
Based on other physiological signs, like quality of sleep, appetite, energy/motivation, I would present you with some treatment options, one of which would be to consult with a medication management provider to assess your symptoms and provide additional information for you to consider.
I would not focus on what other people say.
Do you feel what you have described impacts your day to day functioning.
Try to evaluate how is your self esteem, motivation and self confidence.
How about negative thoughts or hopelessness.
Any concerns about your grades sliding down.
If you answered yes to any questions, may be it's time to see a counsellor.
Although some people managing depression feel sad or "down", it is a possible to have depression without an obvious sad mood.
Many people indicate that they feel numb or flat.
People managing depression often have low motivation.
They may stay in bed for long periods of time and only get up for absolutely necessary activities.
People with depression may also feel inappropriate guilt or shame.
If you have been experiencing the symptoms you described for more than two weeks, I recommend that you see a counselor to get a more in-depth evaluation.
The symptoms you are experiencing are typical of depression, and with a bit of support, you could regain energy and improved self-esteem.
The stigma surrounding mental health can make a diagnosis or a label of depression seem scary.
The important thing to remember is that mental health disorders are as important as and as treatable physical health disorders.
Hang in there.
Healing is possible!
Hello.
Being a teenager in our society today can cause depression quite easily.
We look at the world in which we live, and the doubts we have about being able to make a contribution, or to have value and worth with the people around us, and we begin to internalize those messages of self-worth.
If that alone were not enough, you are trying to figure out where you want to go in life, and who you are supposed to be in the world.
Teens are faced with pressures of being judged by your peers for how you present yourself; following current fashions; possessing the trendy things; and hanging out with the "in crowd.
Here's a "secret" that might help with most of those issues: Not much of those problems I've just described will really matter as they might seem to right now, in the real world.
If you are feeling depression because you feel you lack some of those things that are seen as important by others (like your peers), I can assure you that being someone who is kind; compassionate; understanding of another person's suffering; and the effort you make to be the best person you can become in the world, will far outweigh anything you experienced in your teen years.
When we are young, we judge everything based on what our peers have, what they say, the way they dress, who's popular, who's not popular, and for the most of it, all of that is external.
So the question becomes, are you trying to fix the feelings on the inside (the internal stuff), with the trappings of all the stuff on the outside (the internal).
That is to say, do you feel that if you had what your friends have, you would be happy and less depressed.
Depression is usually a symptom of something much bigger, it is not typically a problem by itself (just as a person who experiences a high temperature may likely have a cold).
So fixing the symptom requires looking at the possible causes.
In your post, you mentioned that you live with your dad.
Are your parents divorced or separated, or has your mom passed away.
Either of these circumstances could certainly cause depression.
Finding out when you started feeling depressed, might be able to pinpoint the trigger that caused it, which requires looking at when you last felt really happy.
It is also important to keep in mind, that as a teenager, your emotions are often being experienced very randomly, and sometimes without cause.
It is part of your emotional development, but as you grow older can learn how to manage those emotions better and practice doing things that help you feel better (without causing harm to yourself).
Have you tried talking to your dad about your feelings, or maybe another relative if you feel safer doing so.
Do you have a friend who is your best friend.
someone who is there for you no matter what.
If not, there is a service you can use that is a national number for teens to talk with teen peer counselors.
They are teens like yourself, but they have some insights that might be helpful.
It helped me when I was in my teens, and has helped lots of other teens as well.
You might find a place to get some referrals to other local services in your area.
If you want are in Washington state and would like to connect with me directly, you call link to me via my profile page.
Or perhaps finding a counselor in your local area might be useful.
Most towns and cities have some form of low cost counseling.
You might also check with your school for assistance.
Don't be afraid of not always knowing how you are supposed to feel.
Adults don't always have a handle on it either.
Being a teenager carries a lot stress, fear, and uncertainty.
But you are not alone, and there is help if you reach out for it.
I wish for you the very best, and bright future.
The answer to the question of whether or not you're depressed, is less meaningful than what you are doing to feel strong and secure in your life.
Otherwise, people shortcut themselves to go deeper in understanding who they are and what they'd like to do with their lives, and accept "depression" as though it is their new name.
What you write sounds like classic depression.
What to do about this feeling is to get closer to yourself in an accepting way.
Assume that what you do in daily living is somehow necessary.
Unless you are doing immoral or illegal actions to other people, to accept your own wishes as truth will open you to appreciate why you do what you do.
Make believe you're interesting and find out more about who you are, if you have trouble to start with thinking of yourself as worth understanding.
The more you appreciate who you are and your unique strengths, vulnerabilities and fears, the more these will dissolve by what seems on their own.
In fact they will disappear bc you are believing in yourself and your ways.
Good luck!
I'm alway wary of assigning a term to a feeling, as often that term becomes more important than the feeling itself.
From the very little that you have written, it is clear that you are going through something that has made you extremely low, affected your self-esteem and motivation, limits your enjoyment of formerly pleasurable activities and affects your feelings of self-worth.
All of these are aspects of being depressed, though you can be depressed and still not have "depression".
Counseling is definitely a place where you can go and sort out why you have had such a sudden a drastic change to your mood.
Sometimes our mood can be effected by changes in our routine, losses or significant disappointments.
Talking with someone will not only help you to better understand why you are feeling this way, but they will also help you to ground yourself and learn strategies and tools to help you to manage your mood and strategize for the future.
I do hope that you will reach out.
Feeling alone can be harmful over long periods of time, as it can stop us from seeking out the support we need.
Sounds like signs of someone who is depressed.
Since the person in question is your friend, offer your friendship to listen to any situations or feelings she has about herself and the way her life is going.
Depressed people are often lonely people and feel as though no one around them cares or notices them.
Your willingness to be available to her may lift her spirits.
Feeling loved goes a long way to dissolving depressed feelings.
Also, if in the beginning when you offer to talk, there is a high chance she'll be defensive and turn down your offer.
Try again on another day and then another day.
When people feel depressed they usually shut down.
So you may need a few or several tries before your friend accepts your offer to show her you care about how she is doing.
Also, watch for signs within yourself that your friends' depression is not sinking your emotions.
Depressed people are draining to be around because they often see and talk about only the negatives and drawbacks of situations.
Sometimes the way to feel happy is to address all the questions you just described.
Teenage years are the first time any of us starts to feel and recognize our uniqueness.
The fact that you recognize your great range of feelings, as uncomfortable as they may sometimes be, is healthy.
Also healthy is that you are asking for opinions of therapists who would be familiar with when a range of feelings shows an out of the ordinary problem.
One path to take is to reflect on the topics you wrote here and especially to ask yourself your reasons for how the problem started and what it would take for it to resolve.
Do you have trust issues because someone broke your trust?You're entitled to a repair of your trust by the other person.
Even if the person never offers this to you, to know you deserve to be restored to whole, may help you feel more secure.
The same is true with the other topics, abandonment and relationships generally.
The more you continue to value your unique understanding, expectations, and standards, the more likely you'll create relationships which do not have these qualities, and you will restore your sense of hope that other people may treat you in a fair and kind way.
What matters most is how you feel and what you're doing, with whom you're interacting, whether you feel you've got enough interaction to be happy.
Whether or not a clinician would decide to identify you as "depressed" matters much less than how you actually are feeling, if you have some ideas as to what might improve your sense of being, and how to go about reaching your goals.
If therapy during your childhood made you feel better and you feel you may be depressed, then trying therapy at this point in your life, makes sense.
The worst that can happen is you find you feel better than you first understood.
The best that can happen is you find a caring therapist who helps you find faith in yourself again.
How do you help yourself to believe you require more than what he offers to you?What do you get from this relationship which feels satisfying?To answer this question may in the longterm be the best way to help your bf.
Your situation sounds extremely frustrating.
You're doing the right move to state you don't want to discuss your depression with her.
I guess you could ask if she would like to know your reason to not speak w her about your depression.
If you feel she can handle a reasonable conversation, and you would like to tell her your true reason, then schedule this or bring up the topic at a neutral time, not in the middle of an argument.
Having an unsupportive mom is difficult enough to accept.
You may feel greater success and peach of mind to meditate on accepting her lack of understanding than to engage in arguing when she starts this.
Hello,While one can be sad from time to time, feeling sad "all the time" could be a sign of depression.
If you feel sad on most days, it is worthwhile speaking to a psychologist to determine whether you suffer clinical depression.
Feeling sadness is a normal response to loss, whether you lose a family, friend, job, or something you deem important in your life.
However, feeling sadness all the time is a signal that you are not happy about something in your life.
If it is related to your family and often relationship with family members could affect our self-esteem and self-worth, then perhaps it is worthwhile exploring what you find unhappy about your relationship with your family.
Is it that you do not feel heard, supported or loved.
Is it that you feel disrespected, disregarded or feel unimportant.
These are just a few examples of common issues that people report that contribute to their depression.
To help you to uncover your reasons for your sadness or depression and to cope with them in a healthier and more constructive way, it may be helpful to contact a therapist who could support you with this process.
You do not have to deal with it alone.
Dr.
Virginia Chow, Montreal Psychologist.
Understandably the idea of someone who tries to control you, is good reason to feel sad.
Your feelings sound like they are very strong and meaningful in your life.
Keep in mind that your feelings about others has more to do with one's own self-view than with what the other person is actually doing.
Unless the people in your family are actually interrupting and impeding your life in practical ways or by intimidation or other verbal ways to inhibit you, then there is a great chance your feelings of being controlled by other family members has more to do with your fears to be who you are than with any family members' actions.
Thank you for posting.
I'm interested to hear some more information; such as, if you live by yourself or family, if you go to school/employed/unemployed, and what kind of things do you like to do with friends or by yourself.
Often times, when we are experiencing a strong emotion that we interpret as negative, we put most of our focus on that negative emotion and struggle to see that we do not always feel that specific emotion.
There are typically points in the day (even if it is for only in 1 minute intervals) when we do not feel that negative emotion.
When we over generalize, we use words like "always" or "never" and when we use those words and it may not be totally true, we feel the negative emotion based on an inaccuracy which is not fair to you.
Ask yourself some of these questions: Am I being realistic when I'm over generalizing things.
Have I ever noticed a short period of time that I wasn't feeling anxious.
What do I notice when I am feeling anxious.
What am I thinking about.
When was the last time I felt empathy.
What was different when I was able to feel empathy.
Hopefully this helps get you started.
Empathy usually falls on a spectrum, meaning that some people show more than others.
Empathy is the ability to look at the world through someone else's eyes or "walk a mile in their shoes.
There could be some people in your life for whom empathy is easier to feel and those for whom you have no idea what they are experiencing.
Empathy is not usually categorized as an emotion, but as something related to emotions.
For example, you could have empathy about someone's anxiety.
I'm not sure whether you are also referring to the idea that you don't have sympathy for yourself or others.
That's a different concept, but also involves different degrees.
When you say you don't have emotion except anxiety, I wonder if you are saying that you have anxiety all the time and it may be covering up other emotions.
If you are experiencing a lot of anxiety, try to look at what it connects to and find something that changes your focus for a few minutes.
This could be any number of activities, such as watching TV, cooking, reading a book, or many other options.
If you are feeling as if you are just going through the motions and not having a lot of emotions about anything, if it's just been a few days, it may just be related to a current stress that will lessen in a few days.
If it has been quite a while, consider tracking your mood and looking at when you do notice changes in your emotions.
There may be some variations that you are not aware of.
If you continue to feel anxious and as if you don't have as many emotions as you would like, consider talking with your primary care physician or a local therapist.
"Empathy is the ability to tap into our own experience to help us connect with others in order to be aware of how they are experiencing life.
It is a skill that we learn with practice and refine as we become mature.
If you are feeling anxious, maybe you are able to understand better others who are going trough anxiety.
But I wonder if instead of feeling empathy, you may just want to find ways to reduce your anxiety.
A good idea is to be very aware of your anxiety triggers, and once you identify them explore other ways you could react.
Love yourself more and treat yourself kindly, with empathy and compassion.
Usually when people feel depressed they also feel lonely and isolated.
Since at this time you wouldn't want to tell anyone about the way you feel, which includes the possibility that a few of the ones whom you tell would offer you emotional support, give this to yourself.
Also consider to make a goal of eventually telling someone whom you are reasonably sure would understand and empathize, about your depression.
This will help alleviate the sense of shame, unworthiness and pervasive guilt which often comes along with depression.
Sending you good luck!
It can be really tough to tell someone - anyone - that you're feeling depressed.
But finding that supportive person that you can share with is a big part of the battle with depression.
Depression thrives on being secret, it seems to grow the more we isolate ourselves and hide it away so I'm with Laura Cassidy, when she suggests finding that professional support person so you can start fighting back against your depression.
If that feels like too big a step right now, maybe check out a book or two.
I'm a big fan of a book called 'Feeling Good' by Dr.
David Burns if you want some practical thoughts on tackling depression and on 'Radical Acceptance' by Tara Brach if you prefer something a little more spiritual.
Hello,It is completely understandable that you would not want people to know about your depression.
I would first like commend you for realizing that you need to help with your depression by reaching out here.
That is a great start, and you've taken the very first courageous step.
Depression can feel debilitating and overwhelming.
Depression is also a very personal thing and no one has know but you and the therapist.
The best way to begin learning and dealing is to pick up the phone and call a therapist or email a therapist and schedule a session.
The great news is that with professional help you can feel better and you will learn how deal with and manage the depression.
There are many ways to help with depression that a therapist can teach you and help guide.
You do not have do this alone.
Asking for help and going to therapy is a strength.
This can be done in a private and confidential setting.
Depression should be treated by a therapist, in a safe, confidential office setting.
The therapist can then discuss your depression with you in more detail to figure out the underlying cause, how long you've been feeling this way and identify what brings on these feelings.
There is hope and depression can be treated with great success, you CAN feel good again.
Depression can be managed appropriately by seeing a licensed therapist.
Often times therapy will offer relief because you would have someone there simply to listen to you, validate your feelings and listen to your story.
The therapist will be able to offer professional insight and perspective on the situation and help you think outside the box.
The therapist can do many things with you, provide insight and offer many ideas to help you learn new coping skills and ideas of things you enjoy, encouraging you to re engage in hobbies you once enjoyed or even discover new things you may enjoy.
There are creative ways to learn to cope too!Your therapist will also be there to support you, without judgement, at your pace, through the entire process.
But the first step is finding a therapist and beginning to identify the cause your depression.
Healing is possible and getting your happiness back is also possible.
Feel free contact me for additional help or information.
Is it possible that even though your illness is chronic, that it goes through phases in which you are more comfortable and that it requires less focus from you than at other times?I think the idea of having a lifelong illness is frustrating and can be depressing to think about.
Thoughts are not necessarily the truth of what will actually happen though.
Illness makes negative situations look worse so be sure you are concentrating on specific areas of your life and not just assuming they will work out badly because you are ill.
One way to be happy alone is to love and appreciate, nurture and be kind to yourself.
This frame of mind may generate new answers to find ways of being among other people too.
I'm so sorry you're feeling like things will never get better.
Try to remember that whatever illness you are dealing with, you are not the only person to have dealt with it and you are not alone.
Out there, just waiting for you, is a group of people that will totally understand what you're going through and will be able to share how they coped.
Hello.
So, someone made you happy but is no longer around.
I am sure that feels devastating.
As a counselor I usually have to ponder this kind of thought because it lends itself to suggesting that happiness comes from the external, rather than the internal side of a person's life.
Happiness is formed within ourselves.
All the external trappings of happiness are usually quite fleeting, and temporary.
Even relationships fo not last forever.
If we get to a place where we are reliant and dependent on those around us to create happiness in our lives, then we lose the opportunities for us to do it ourselves.
We are entirely capable of finding ways to be happy.
Sometimes this entails working out issues that are holding us back from reaching a place of peace, or resolution to a specific problem.
What I would offer to you, is to find ways in which you can develop happiness for yourself.
What do you like about your life as it is right now.
What can you do to create change in your life to increase your happiness.
These kinds of questions can be valuable to you as you seek out ways to make happiness an internal rather than an external event.
Mourning the loss of a social connection (in whatever way that occurred), is part of the grieving process, but it is not permanent.
It is a path to healing and moving forward.
From this, you can seek out new sources of happiness.
I encourage you to remember that happiness is independent of the external experience you have in the world.
Happiness is an expression of the internal feelings, so that will be the source or the font of positive emotion from which you really draw.
If you are lacking in happiness, then it becomes important to examine why that is, and what you can do about it to promote self-care.
Seeking out a professional counselor can also be a good option as you move through the grief/loss process and examine the reasons happiness is not in greater supply.
I wish you happiness for every day of your life.
Best wishes.
It sounds like you have been feeling pretty down, since the loss of a relationship, and you're wondering how to be happy by yourself.
Intimacy is a very natural human desire and at the same time learning to enjoy ourselves, even when we are alone, can strengthen our ability to lead a satisfying life in and out of relationship.
Working with a therapist, you may be able to gain insight into how you show up in your relationships with yourself and others and discover more fulfilling ways to do so.
It is hard to make a definite diagnosis however I would say that it could be and or a combination of depression, stress, PTSD.
More background information would have to be needed.
One thing I would say is that you really need to seek guidance from a professional to work through these symptoms.
If what you described as a caged animal is released, all the crying, sadness, and controllable emotions will come out.
That would not be good when they do.
Get help before they do.
As far as the formal diagnosis of depression goes, it would be hard to determine without more information.
It sounds like you are noticing that there is a significant difference between how you are feeling on the inside and how you express yourself outwardly.
Part of you is quite distressed and yet it remains invisible to the outside world, almost as if it is trapped inside of your body.
Many people who are depressed experience such things as intrusive thoughts, emotional numbness, difficulty expressing themselves, and bodily tension (caged animal?).
In working with a competent therapist, you may be able to get more insight into what you are going through, the nature of the disconnect between you inner feelings and outer expression, and eventually gain relief from the distress as well as a greater sense of connection with yourself and personal freedom.
It sounds like you are trying to find a label to help you to understand why you are feeling the way you are feeling.
Sometimes there are no labels for how we feel.
Sometimes there is no name for the emotions that we are experiencing.
Regardless, you do not have to continue to feel this way, no matter what you call it.
If you are seeking to experience an internal calmness such as your external calmness, you may want to try some mindfulness practices or meditation.
However, being able to get at the root cause of what you are feeling may be what you need to help you release this feeling for the long term.
I recommend seeking support for this to allow this internal screaming to get some air and begin to breathe.
First of all, I am sorry that you have been missing out on your childhood.
It may help you to know that many of us feel that we have missed out on our childhoods, as well, and that despite such deprivations, for many of us, our adult lives have been extraordinarily fulfilling due to our opening up to trusted adults.
I recommend that you find a trustworthy adult to talk to.
This may be a teacher, a coach, a school counselor, a minister, a family member, or a friend's family member.
If none of these are available, try out a professional counselor, social worker, psychiatric nurse practitioner, psychologist, or a psychiatrist.
It is best to get a referral for such a professional from a peer who has had a positive and safe experience with a particular provider.
Life sounds extremely frustrating for you right now.
As long as you've reached your conclusion that your parents do not take you seriously when you would like to speak with them on a serious topic, and that you feel unable to trust either of them, then work with your own information.
Many people don't know how to listen and aren't trustworthy.
As painful and aggravating as having parents who fit this description, you're better off to honor what you realize than to continue fighting what is not in your hands to change.
Since you write about having a similar problem with friends, then maybe this comes about because you pick friends who are similarly unsatisfying to be with as are your parents.
The first step out of this dilemma would be to accept how crummy you feel about the way your parents are toward you.
If you're able to live with the sadness and resentment of having parents who don't want to know how to understand you, then you'll start to develop a new and more satisfying definition of what you expect from the behaviors of your friends.
Trust yourself that what you feel and see is accurate, then it becomes easier to trust and welcome new people who are formatted differently than either your parents or your friends who sound very similar to your parents' ways.
I'm sorry you feel so alone and isolated, those feelings in and of themselves can lead to depression, stress and anxiety.
So job one is finding someone you can talk to.
A good friend or an open parent can be as helpful as a professional counselor, but if you don't have those, then by all means call your local Mental Health Association, suicide prevention, or go see your school counseling department.
There are many of us now who do on-line, FaceTime, phone counseling so that is an option to consider in your situation.
On the other hand, If you want to script a conversation with your parents (I'm a great believer in scripting) not that you're going to read it to them, but if you write down exactly what you want to say, read it over a few times before you're ready to have the conversation.
Why.
You'll be much more likely to do it if you're prepared, and you'll have a better chance of saying everything you want to say in a calm but forceful way.
The same with your friends--you are probably a great listener and therefore attract people who want to talk--so you need to let these friends know you need something in return.
If you practice asking for equal talk time, then perhaps these friends will respond and surprise you, or if you make those demands you'll start attracting people who are looking for equality in friendships.
Now back to that script--first decide do you want to talk to both parents at once, or one at a time.
Then begin to write down the points you want to make such as:  I love you, and I know you love me but I don't feel as though I can trust your love to be unconditional enough to tell you who I really am, and how I really feel.
Find your own words to describe your own feelings.
If I can help, get in touch.
You are right to reach out starting here, there are no prizes for suffering in silence and, as you already know, little joy in going it alone.
One of the most difficult challenges we face is not being heard.
It is incredibly frustrating and hurtful when others, especially parents, do not listen.
While your parents surely love you and want to understand you, it may be difficult for them to fully understand your feelings and experiences.
They are quite a bit older and have likely not dealt with some of the struggles that you face.
I would suggest communicating your feelings to them about not being heard.
Talk to them during a non-emotional moment when the discussion is not already heated.
In other words, do not wait until an argument ensues to have an open discussion with them about how you are feeling.
Prepare them by asking them what time is good for them to talk.
Let them know you have something important to get off your chest.
Try and avoid using exaggerated or extreme language such as "you NEVER listen," "you ALWAYS say.
and stray away from placing blame.
Instead of beginning your statements with "you" try using "I" by letting them know how their behavior effects you.
Finally, let them know that they are important to you and that having their trust and support would mean a lot to you.
Perhaps giving them suggestions as to what you wish for and would like to see change would help them to better understand.
I would also suggest that you seek guidance from a therapist, teacher, or school counselor if possible.
Most schools have counseling resources on sight in which a trained professional is available to talk with students looking for help.
Best of luck to you.
First, thank you for sharing such deep personal information.
It can be difficult to share such intimate information.
To begin, it sounds likes your primary concern your desire to speak to someone who takes your mental health seriously.
You've tried talking to your parents and your friends and neither have made that connection in the area you need.
I'm sorry to hear that.
it's unfortunate.
However, I think a couple things can be done to try to address this.
If you want support1) Parents- Sit down with one of them and tell them with all seriousness that you need to talk about something that is affecting you deeply.
Perhaps speaking to both can be too much for one room.
If you try to speak to mom or dad by themselves, it may create that intimate atmosphere needed to understand where you are coming from.
2) Friends: Like parents it can be difficult to speak to your friends about challenges with your mental health.
When you're feeling down and anxious, friends can be great help or not their at all.
With friends, it may be one of those things where you also need to create an intimate environment with one friend to speak to about your sadness and anxiety.
If anything,speak to the fact you're hurt and help them understand that if they can't understand the depressionIf you don't want supportCoping Strategies: Identify coping skills and strategy that help you when you're feeling down.
Ideas:A.
) JournalingB) PaintingC) ExerciseD) MusicE) Reading AffirmationF) Listening To Motivation Videos.
Teenage years are rough for anyone, and this is a time for self-discovery and experimentation.
Having older parents can certainly pose challenges.
Most kids feel like their parents don't understand them, but yours are older than the average parents of teenagers.
They're from a completely different generation than you are.
It sounds like they love you, but may not understand you.
The problem here is the generation/age gap, and there's not a whole lot you can do about that.
What you can do is accept the situation and perhaps look at it a little differently.
It seems like you're looking for affirmation from them, looking for their approval and understanding.
It's never a good idea to look to others to define who you are or to get a self-esteem boost.
Who you are and how you feel about yourself needs to come from inside, not from outside.
One way you can have a better relationship with your parents is to stop looking at all the things you aren't getting from them that you want, and rather look at all the things you are getting from them.
Yes, this is a glass half full or half empty point of view, but it works.
The negative will overshadow the positive if you let it.
Start looking for the good things in your relationship with your parents and your feelings towards them will become more positive.
I'm not sure how your friends/peers made you feel like your childhood has been taken from you.
That's a curious statement, and requires a deeper conversation to understand where that came from.
However, I do understand feeling different and out of place, especially in high school.
Find the strength within yourself rather than looking to others in your life to make you feel better or feel like a complete person.
It helps to have friends and loved ones, but you can never rely on them to fulfill all of your needs.
Set some goals for your future, work towards them.
Focus on being the best YOU that you can be, and the right people will enter your life at the right time.
Hi there.
Being 15 years old can be a very difficult time in your teenage life.
I remember when I was 15 and how I often felt my parents weren't listening to me.
It's even more difficult when you feel that you do not have a friend that you can confide in.
Having depression in the past and being able to get through it shows me that you can get through anything.
Depression alone is a very difficult problem to work through.
In addition to the communication problem with your parents, it appears that you are also struggling with stress and anxiety.
We all have stress and anxiety in our lives.
If we didn't, none of us would be living.
Anxiety & stress keep us on our toes.
Often, I have to remind myself of this as well.
However, it is how we manage stress and anxiety, so it will not overcome our lives.
Are you familiar with relaxation techniques, such as: deep breathing exercises, meditation or yoga.
Relaxation Techniques can help you tremendously in reducing your stress and anxiety.
Deep breathing exercises are helpful when you are on the go, such as school, shopping, out with friends or whatever extracurricular activities you engage in.
Most people do not take full advantage of their lung capacity.
I know, that sounds silly.
But, it's true.
You would be surprised how much air you lungs can hold.
Imagine being in the Doctor's office and taking deep breaths.
This is what you want to do when you are feeling overwhelmed and/or stressed.
Take a moment to take in at least 10 deep breaths and let them out slowly.
You will be surprised how well you feel afterwards.
Meditation and Yoga are also healthy forms to working through stress and anxiety.
You will need a quiet place for your meditation.
You want to be in the moment‚ and take in the peace and serenity.
All it takes is a quiet place, closing your eyes and thinking of your happy place.
Some people use meditation music as well.
If you have access to this type of music and or the internet for more ways to practice meditation, please go for it!Yoga on the other hand will take a little more work and practice.
I would not suggest you learning this on your own, if you have never attempted yoga before.
Find an experienced Yoga instructor to teach you the ropes and/or ask your school counselor about the possibility of getting someone to come to the school to teach the students.
Lastly, in regards to your parents it is very important to be able to have a relationship where you feel comfortable communicating.
I would recommend writing a letter to them, if you are unable to express how you feel in person.
A letter is more intimate and requires a little more effort on their end.
If they are open on working on this relationship, maybe suggest family counseling to fully work on this issue.
I hope this was helpful for you and I wish you the best!
A feeling of emptiness can be from a lack of awareness and acknowledgment for the things, the people, the places that you have in your life.
The use of affirmation and gratitudes helps to remind ourselves of all of the aspects of our lives.
Your question is very broad because feeling empty can develop for many different reasons.
You're certainly not alone in feeling this way!Try to follow the logic of your feelings by asking yourself questions about the empty feeling.
Doing this may open up a discovery about the reason for the emptiness feeling.
When do you feel empty, are there certain situations it happens more often than another, what helps the feeling go away, what or who is helpful in relieving the empty feeling.
Sometimes people need a little help to get started in understanding how to recognize their feelings.
Consider a therapist, any disciplined practice which encourages self-knowledge, such as some yoga practices, and a creative discipline like photography or music.
As long as you concentrate on increasing your self-understanding, eventually you'll find the answer to your question!
It sounds like you have been thinking about how past hurts have influenced you, and when you try to talk about these hurts with people in your life, you are feeling invalidated.
It also sounds like current conflicts are continuing to leave you feeling hurt and devalued.
In working with a therapist, you may be able to get some clarity about your past, who you are, and what kinds of boundaries you want in your relationships, so that you can lead a life that is more satisfying to you.
Hello.
Adults who come from abusive home histories (physical, emotional, or even psychological), may take a long time to heal from that abuse.
We carry our past with us everywhere we go, and it is up to us to find resolutions to past hurts.
This is often easier said than done, but it is possible.
From the perspective of those with whom you have shared your concerns, it might be assumed that based on where you are in life and who you are now, that you have already worked through any issues from your younger years.
Some of our deepest scars in life are indeed invisible and suppressed.
We have to get to the place where we can take care of the inner child that is still hurting, by recognizing that those who hurt us - however they did, might have had their own challenges which prevented them from functioning and behaving in ways we might have deeply needed.
Those who have directly hurt you, may not be capable of acknowledging and understanding how you were affected by their actions - even in the worst of cases.
They themselves may be doing what they can, either out of shame or heartbreak for their own actions, to work on forgetting how they behaved toward you all those years before.
How are they behaving toward you now.
Can you find it in your heart to forgive those who have hurt you.
Forgiveness is the gift we give ourselves, and isn't dependent on an apology from an offender.
By forgiving (even in the absence of any apology), we are releasing the weight of the burden we are carrying that reflects the offense we feel was committed against us.
Sometimes therapy can be helpful in this process.
Talking with someone who can be non-judgmental and reflects an empathetic position toward you might be what you need right now.
Seeking out a therapist to help you work through these negatives feelings and thoughts is much easier, than trying to go it alone.
I would encourage you to reach out and find someone who resonates with you on that journey, so that you can begin a path toward healing.
It sounds like a tough time and it's normal to feel down when your family is going through a divorce or other hardship.
There's a difference between feelings like sadness, discouragement, grief, loneliness and depression, though.
Sadness is sadness and sometimes we have to go through a grieving or other process, that is a normal reaction to events in our lives.
Depression, on the other hand, is more about being stuck.
Lulling yourself with self-care sounds like a healthy response and a way to give yourself support.
So as to the uncomfortable but healthy part of your feelings, do the best you can to put names to it and share with a trusted other person.
You will find comfort.
The part of your situation that's depression -- feeling stuck, not able to get out of bad, concentrate, changes in sleeping and eating, loss of enjoyment in living, poor hygiene, feelings of hopelessness, that's different.
First step, identify your own symptoms of depression.
If you have any thoughts of hurting yourself, tell someone.
If you're not sure, you can try 800-lifenet or other support line to get feedback.
First aid for depression includes: daily care and feeding, good sleeping and eating, lots of exercise--even when you don't feel like it--healthy socializing, and focusing on talking to yourself in a positive way.
If you aren't able to move yourself out of your depression, work with a professional to make short-term goals and get some support.
You may also talk to your doctor or psychiatrist about trying an anti-depressant to give you a little lift while you go through a rough patch.
Consider yourself quite normal for feeling overwhelmed and depressed about your parents divorce.
This is the most natural way to feel at this time.
Depending on how old you are, and whether you live under their roof, are dependent on their support, and are either part of the decision or not, of with whom and where you will live, start considering these points.
How did you find out about the upcoming divorce?Are either of your parents reluctant to answer your questions or is it clear that neither of them want to talk about anything with you?Whatever your fears and questions about your own future, these are all real.
It is necessary for you to know about your basic future.
If you are living on your own and the main problem is your inner adjustment that your family structure is completely changing, then probably a good therapist would be a great help to you now, to clarify these tensions.
Sending lots of good wishes for an easy resolution to your new path!
I couldn't help but notice that you did not specify your age, so I am unable to set the total chronological order and length that you have suffered in this way, but I want to start by commending you on seeking out additional coping techniques on your own.
Unfortunately, it sounds like you were offered some that were more dangerous than helpful, but be proud that you were able to curb those before they caused too much harm.
From what you have written, stress has always been a difficult thing for you to manage.
Often, when I am working with those who offer the same concern, there is a degree of people pleasing that comes with that stress.
When we are trying to make others happy, especially when we are unable to distinguish the proper "rules for success", it can make even the simplest of tasks overwhelming.
Stress management is just that, management; of our own anxieties about the needs of others, about our skills and the ability to complete a task and having multiple requests at any given time.
Each of these aspects requires a separate sets of "tools" to manage them accordingly.
For example, assertiveness communication training could aid in communicating with your colleagues to manage their expectations of your deadlines and abilities, but it will not assist you with managing your own anxieties.
Try to separate the different areas of the problem, in order to help yourself to find a solution and work on them in their own time.
Perhaps keeping a journal will help you to better understand why you are so easily overwhelmed by stress and help you track some of your less-helpful responses to stress.
For example, does a certain person's style of communication always make you feel undervalued and therefore push you to finish their requests first.
Is there a certain time of the day where you start to fall off in productivity.
Is that the time fo the day where you also tend to pile up your requirements?Try to ask yourself some of these harder questions and see where they lead you.
It sounds like you have been struggling with this for quite some time, using many of the same coping techniques that feel tried and true to no avail.
Often, we fall back on coping techniques that would be helpful in other problems (stress, social anxieties.
) for our depression, but the truth is that depression requires it's own little tool kit.
Depression is all-encompassing, and, based on what you've written, the symptoms are already affecting work and your personal life in myriad ways.
The best route forward would be to seek out counselling, admittedly, but if your insurance deductible is too high, that can be very expensive.
I would recommend contacting your Employee Assistance Program (EAP) if offered by your employer.
If not, you can look into community centres for counselling options, check if your doctor will give you a referral or your local religious organization.
If, however, you are motivated to get your depression under control, there are some great workbooks out there that you can use on your own or with your therapist (as long as your therapist is trained in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, or CBT), such as "Mind Over Mood".
Hello, and thank you for your question.
This is a very serious time.
I don't mean to frighten you, but you are right to be concerned.
The time right after people leave the hospital after receiving psychiatric services is a time of high risk for suicide.
It is very important, after hospitalization, to get follow-up care with a professional as soon as possible.
If your husband has an established therapist, this is the time to call.
It is also a good time to alert your support system of friends, family, clergy or others to let them know he is still struggling.
This is good support for him AND you.
It is important to think about means and opportunity to make another attempt.
Means really do matter.
So, if you have a firearm in the home, it is really important to remove it.
You can't remove all things that a person may hurt themselves with, but some things are more lethal than others.
Firearms are very lethal.
I am not sure what means he used last time, but try to reduce the opportunity for him to access it again.
This is where your support system can help out.
People can take turns hanging out with him until you are sure the crisis is over.
If you believe that an attempt is going to occur, talk to your husband about going back to the hospital.
If he refuses, you will want to find out what your options are to have him go even if he doesn't want to.
I know the thought of that really hurts, but it can save his life.
Calling 9-1-1 is always a good option if you are not sure.
Usually a suicide crisis, meaning they want to harm themselves right now, lasts a few minutes, hours or days.
Sometimes when you get them through the crisis stage, they no longer want to commit suicide.
But, as you are indicating, that feeling of wanting to commit suicide can come back again.
So, it is always good to have a plan.
If you want more information, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline.
They will always answer: 1-800-273-8255.
They can help you create a specific safety plan.
I do hope things work out alright.
This is actually more common then we often realize, and actually understandable, as he has gone through a trauma, an unresolved existential crisis.
He was taken care of by others and now is again left alone with his own internal, and rather horrific inner struggle.
In my work with CCT, or Contextual Conceptual Therapy, I have learned how trapped suicidal people are in their own isolation, also called a "mysterious isolation," a form of self protection which cuts the off from their Self, or spirit.
And unless they address this message from their soul, accompany a guide on a journey to discover their own missing information, that is to recognize how their own uncomforted emotion alpain has resulted in a coping strategy which has effectively cut themselves off from their own beauty, their Self, and their ability to receive love from themselves and others.
Their attempt to kill themselves is a cry from their soul or spirit that they cannot live the life they are living any longer.
They take this literally and try to end their life, when in fact what their soul or spirit is saying is they need to begin to live the life they came here to live.
I'm thankful to read your husband found care and that his suicide attempt wasn't successful.
While he was hospitalized, and prior to his release, your husband would've been provided in writing a self-care action plan.
This typically includes things like committing to a contract 'not to harm' and what to do if he felt overwhelmed by his anger, depression, and hopelessness, for example,  call 911, call therapist, go to nearest hospital emergency department).
Additionally, his protocol would've provided instructions for his taking medication(s) as directed, having a follow-up appointment(s) with his psychiatrist/psychologist/clinical social worker, and participating in some form of small group support.
If your husband's struggling as you describe, and you are feeling overwhelmed or frightened for his (your) safety, I'd encourage you to seek immediate assistance.
This must be so difficult for both of you.
Watching someone you love suffer so profoundly can bring up lots of difficult feelings.
Without knowing what you are already doing, I have a few thoughts to share with you.
First and foremost, know that you cannot fix this for him, and get support for yourself.
As much as you are able, make space in your relationship for him to talk about what he is experiencing.
He might not want to talk, and that is ok.
If he wants to talk, try to listen without judgement and without trying to talk him out of his feelings.
Focus on validating his feelings and just sitting with him in his pain.
Let him know how you feel.
that you love him, that you care, that you are concerned, that this is scary for you too, that you are here.
I hope that this is helpful.
I've written a series of blog posts about coping with distress.
The techniques I've written about there may be supportive for you and your husband.
Sending warm wishes your way.
I appreciate that you are concerned about your husband's emotions and want to support him as best you can right now.
I imagine that you must be going through your own difficult time too.
You've had a complicated shock and trauma in your life and in your marriage; it's normal for both of your emotions to move from hope to despair to fear, anger, gratitude.
there is no wrong way to feel and there is no particular pattern your emotions or his will follow.
Try not to assume what he is feeling but ask him instead.
"How are you doing today?" is something that can be asked over and over again and your love and compassion for him will come through.
If he has a hard time talking, you can share your observations.
"I notice you're more withdrawn.
This worries me.
Certainly it will help you if you know what he's thinking and feeling because he hid his intentions to hurt himself.
It's normal that you want to know.
If there is depression and hopelessness, this likely was part of what led to his initial despair.
There is help out there.
Depression is treatable, and seeking that treatment is important right now at this vulnerable time.
This is the kind of complex situation that can be assisted by a therapist who is qualified to help you both understand and manage your emotions.
Whether your husband seeks help or not, I hope that you do.
A failed suicide attempt is commonly thought of as a cry for help,‚ however it can also be a serious attempt to find a permanent solution to depression, hopelessness or other feelings a person feels are unbearable.
It's wonderful that you want to support your husband, but If your husband is feeling depressed and hopeless, you can best help him by getting him to a mental health professional.
Feelings of hopelessness and depression, and previous attempts at suicide are all risk factors for future suicide attempts.
With a mental health professional, or in the emergency room of a hospital, your husband should be evaluated for suicidal thoughts, intent and plan, and if he is a danger to himself he should probably be hospitalized again until he is stable.
Without knowing the particulars, your husband may suffer from Major Depressive Disorder or some other illness on the depressive spectrum.
In that case medication could help him immensely, at which point you can offer your support and encouragement him to practice gentle self-care.
And do not forget to practice it for yourself.
Remember: a suicide attempt not only affects the person, but it is an immense stressor for his or her loved ones as well.
As they say, put your oxygen mask on first.
‚ Then you will be better able to provide your husband with calm and loving care and attention.
The fact that you're reaching out for help here is really helpful.
The first thing I would suggest is that you consider seeing a local mental health professional yourself to be able to talk about the details, how this is affecting you, and how you can hold onto you are while also being supportive to you husband.
From the way that you describe this, I wonder what has changed since coming home from the hospital.
Perhaps you can have a conversation with your husband this and mention that you are asking him questions to learn more about his experience and you can discuss how you notice that things were going much better when he came home from the hospital, and now things are not as good.
Perhaps he can tell you about what is different so that you may know him would be most helpful to him.
I also hope that you husband is still continuing with his own treatment.
There may also be a local peer support telephone number for the county that you live in that they be able to help you determine whether your husband needs more immediate treatment if he is feeling hopeless again.
There are national crisis telephone numbers listed below as well.
Since as husband and wife your lives are closely joined, how your husband feels greatly influences the way you feel.
Give yourself some time to concentrate on how you've been affected by your husband's suicide attempt.
Even if you decide against immediately telling him how you're feeling, knowing this about yourself will guide how and the topics you bring up with him.
Is your husband talking easily with you?Do you have some ideas as to what is creating his feeling of hopelessness?The ideal approach would be if the two of you are able to discuss what bothers him and what bothers you.
Depending on how far away you each are from such a position, you may benefit from speaking with a licensed professional therapist who can guide you and or you and your husband on opening up for discussion what feels stressful enough to merit taking one's own life.
It seems like you are very receptive of your husband's emotions and want to support him trough this time.
But it is also important of being aware of your emotions.
How are you feeling after the suicide attempt.
It is common to experience negative feelings while you try to make sense of the incident.
Feelings like anger, shame, guilt and fear are frequent; while, wanting to avoid, minimize and become distant from the person are parts of the defense mechanism to attempt a quick resolution.
Once you understand and overcome those feelings you may be in a better position to help your husband; who may be experiencing some negative feelings as well.
First, it is important to have a safety plan in place, which includes removing harming objects from the home, knowing who to call if there's a new attempt (either 9-1-1, or nearby treatment center), have a professional expert who monitors you and your husband's progress, either a Counselor or mental health provider could help you manage negative feelings and identify ways to handle triggering situations.
Once the safety plan is in place, make him feel supported and not judged, saying open ended statements, like: I am glad that you are here, please let me know what I can do to help you through this process‚.
Making small changes toward a healthier living may help as well.
Exercising, eating healthier and practicing new leisure activities may be good ways to start.
Also, explore your spirituality and your husbands, looking for ways to encourage each other by joining a support group or finding people who share your spiritual beliefs.
You are describing some of the most common symptoms of depression: low self esteem, difficulty sleeping, changes in appetite, sad mood, feelings of hopeless and feelings of worthlessness.
A full assessment/evaluation with a mental health professional is warranted to understand if indeed you meet criteria for a Major Depressive Disorder , for example,.
, are delressed.
One thing I often tell patients is that "Do you think you are depressed?" People often answer yes or no, but many individuals respond with a question: How would I know.
To that I often explain that if I stopped watching movies or better, stopped enjoying watching movies that would be a clear indication for me that I am depressed.
It would be a sign that I have lost pleasure or interest in the activity that I typically enjoy most .
I'll ask you to think of one activity which you really really enjoy.
It could be anything from reading, to being with friends, to skiing to watching tv.
I would like to now ask you if you have stopped enjoying that activity or can't find the motivation to engage in it.
This is another symptom of depression: loss in pleasurable activities.
The good news is that there are many effective, available treatment if you are indeed in a depression or simply, you want to modify/decrease your depressive symptoms , for example,, you want to stop feeling so tired and so worthless.
Treatment includes one or more of the following: psychotherapy, medication, exercise.
Any one or combination of both of these can help to improve your mood.
The even better news is that feeling that you are doing something wrong can diminish with appropriate treatment over time.
I hope you find this information helpful.
The most important next step is to get evaluated by a mental health professional typically a psychologist or psychiatrist, and for both you and the professional to better understand your symptoms and your mood in the context of what is going on in your life.
Sometimes repressing anger can lead to depression and block all kinds of other emotions too.
I would wonder about your experience with anger and if you've ever been discouraged from expressing anger.
I would also wonder if you feel like you have space to express yourself in your relationship or if you feel like you really aren't being heard.
It's hard to feel cared for and connected to someone else when you don't feel accepted by them.
Sometimes when we fight a lot with our partner, it becomes more uncomfortable to share emotions because it feels like it will lead to another flight or disagreement.
Something else is that you could have an agreement that if one of you is having a really strong emotions in a difficult conversation and would like to break from the conversation, you could agree (ahead of time) that you'll say that you would like a "timeout" and will come back to discuss the issue in a certain amount of time (usually about an hour) and then try to resume the discussion.
The reason this can work is it can give you a chance to calm down and then still go back to the discussion rather than not talking about it again.
This only works if both of you agree to that before something starts, though.
Hi Georgia, There's a really good lesson here.
People tell us things, and we tend to think that's the truth.
but it's not.
I'll do some translating for you.
You're so ungrateful" means "I need you to be successful and happy in order for me to feel I'm a good parent".
You're too young to be depressed" means "I don't want to deal with your mental health issues right now.
I'll pretend it's not happening so I don't have to face my fear and shame".
It's only going to get worse" just means "I don't know how to support you beyond scaring you into wanting to at least fake happiness for my sake".
Your parents are being unsupportive, not because you're not suffering, but because this is all they're capable of right now.
They are not where you will find the support you need, so keep looking for it in other places.
It's out there.
If might be an aunt or a friend, or a friend's aunt.
It might be a therapist or a bus driver or your family doctor.
Keep looking for someone who will hear you.
I hope you don't ever give up.
Don't think that you can't afford the help you need on your own.
There are several counselors that see people on a sliding scale that can be as low as $5 (based on your income).
Find a center that is non-profit, they have great counselors as well.
It sounds like you know what you are experiencing and know that you need someone to talk to, someone that is willing to listen.
Your parents may not understand what your are feeling right now and that is not totally abnormal.
I would encourage you to seek help immediately so you can live the best live you can.
which is not being depressed.
Is it possible you simply didn't mix well with the particular therapists with whom you've worked.
If this is possible, interview a therapist before starting therapy.
Then you will be choosing a therapist who feels compatible with your way of seeing yourself and your life.
Also, therapy isn't for everyone.
Read about the different healing modalities and see if one of these speaks to your interest in feeling better.
What matters most is finding among all the legitimate healing methods, what you believe will be effective.
I'm sorry that you have tried several different things and not had much relief.
I will say that there are several different types of medications that may help and each therapist is different, so it is quite possible that a different combination of things you've already tried may be helpful.
I would encourage you to continue trying different therapists.
I would say to give each one at least six sessions before you decide that the approach that they are using is not working for you.
Also, most places have a certain sort of structured initial session that must be done, but after that, the decisions are largely up to what you and the clinician feel is helping.
If something is or is not working, communicate this with your therapist.
This is a big deal.
Most therapists I know actually welcome this feedback.
There is a fair amount of research into the idea that the therapeutic alliance (the relationship that you have in the context of working through the reasons that brought you into therapy) is very important.
Also, sometimes anxiety and depression can make it difficult to go to therapy on a regular basis.
If that is something with which you are struggling, I would encourage you to talk about that as well.
In addition to a solid relationship with a therapist who you connect with, you may consider trying something like yoga or meditation.
Mindfulness is sometimes helpful as well.
For starters, commend yourself for being committed to working.
You have no idea what is going to happen in the next second, so focusing on thinking you will never have a good career or amount to anything financially is creating a fictitious story.
Remind yourself of that every time the thought pops up.
The false belief that nothing good will happen is sucking out energy you can use on pursuing your career dreams.
Next, do you know what you need to do to become an electrician or heavy machinery operator.
If not, find out.
Then, set up a realistic schedule for yourself to accomplish the steps.
As you accomplish each step, see your progress.
Notice that you are moving closer to your goal.
Every day remind yourself why you are pursuing this career.
In fact, write it down and tape it on your bathroom mirror.
When you start to feel discouraged, remember your goal and remind yourself that you have no idea if you'll make it or not but you are going to give it everything you have to find out.
Anything worth pursuing is going to take a lot of persistence and hard work.
Stay with it.
You and your family are worth it!
Wow that is tough.
There is nothing worse than fearing abandonment when you are already struggling with depression.
It sounds like you are still wanting to work through whatever challenges you and your husband are having but your husband may not be on the same page.
I would encourage you and your husband to seek professional support if you haven't already.
While depression can put real strains on a relationship, relationship problems can lead to or contribute to depression and there may be some real benefits to both of you in doing some couple therapy.
With that being said - if your husband is not willing to do therapy or is clear that he wants the relationship to end, then I can't see what choice you have but to "respect his decision" as you mentioned.
This doesn't mean that you have to feel okay with the decision - as I'm sure you wouldn't - but ultimately loving one another and staying in committed relationships is a choice that we each have to make.
If he is wanting to leave - this could make things a lot tougher for you.
I would encourage you to seek professional support for yourself and reach out to lots of friends and family.
You do not need to face depression alone - nor should you have to.
We all need support at tough times like these.
I'm sorry for the hurt you're feeling from your husband's decision.
Keep in mind that if one partner does not want to be in a relationship and remains in it, then both people will be unhappy, dissatisfied and feel stressed.
Imagine being in a relationship that you'd rather leave.
All the negative feelings and resentment of being with someone whom you'd rather be without, would not leave very much energy to satisfy your partner.
I'm glad you realize that you feel depressed.
Depression is a mood that can change once you understand what is causing it.
Depression is an area that very often therapists help their patients understand, and emotionally support and encourage them during the course this takes.
For now, concentrate on decreasing the tension in your life.
Your husband's indecision may very well be adding to your stress.
Only he can make up his own mind.
As hard as this may be, all you really can do is take care of how you feel so that you will feel better.
From what you write, your husband is too unsure to offer you the love and care you'd like from him.
Learning to love oneself is always worthwhile.
At this stage in your marriage, now sounds like an ideal opportunity for you to teach yourself self-love.
The fact that you mention that he is "constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out," suggests that Discernment Counseling might be a really good fit for you both.
Discernment counseling is a protocol for partners where one or both aren't certain they want to remain in the relationship.
It's a brief (1-5 sessions) and intentionally focused on helping partners talk through (primarily individually) their reasons for and against staying in the relationship - as well as confront their own contributions that lead to the relationship crisis.
It's aimed at helping the couple reach a clear understanding of which path they are going to take, not asking anyone to change just yet, so it can be a lot less intimidating and more to the point than couples therapy.
You can look to find a local therapist providing this service here.
That said, I agree with other respondents that if he is deciding to leave, seeking out support for yourself would be incredibly helpful.
You may need to accept his decision, but you can certainly feel whatever emotions you have.
You are allowed to feel exactly how you feel, and it's likely you'll be sad, or angry or hurt or disappointed or scared, or any combination of any/all of those.
Having someone there who can validate those emotions and help you to process the grief that naturally comes with the end of a relationship can be a huge help in finding a place of healing and regaining a sense of self, a sense of hope.
Although the marriage vows say in sickness and health, each person has the right to choose to stay or to leave, depending on their ability to cope and handle marriage challenges.
I know is hard not to focus on him and his choice, but the more you put the focus of attention on him the least support you will receive.
Focus on increasing self-care activities and building a support system around you.
A therapist can help you to work with depression symptoms, build up your self-esteem, and developing coping skills.
Also, invite him to a therapy session so he can clarify any questions and concerns regarding your diagnosis.
When you are at your lowest, you have an opportunity to learn not just about the people around you and who you can depend on, but also, so much about yourself and why you have come to the place that you have.
Take this time to do some introspection and learn yourself.
It will give you the power to recover from whatever it is that has broken you.
We'd love to talk with you.
Please contact us sometime.
If your husband is changing his mind about whether or not he wants to stay in the relationship, I wonder if you both might benefit from seeing a therapist who specializes in couples.
In my training working with couples, partners come into counseling with one of three goals in mind: strengthening the relationship, getting a divorce, or making a decision.
The decision could be whether or not stay together or it could be any number of other things, such as what state to live in.
When you ask whether you have to respect whatever decision he makes, respecting his decision does not mean that you have to agree with what he decides.
While you do not have the power to change his decision, he also does not have the power to change yours or how you feel about it.
Having said that, if he is changing his mind a lot, chances are that the only decision he has made is that he needs to make a decision.
Weighing the options of an important decision (any type of important decision) can be anxiety-producing its own right.
The fact that you said you were diagnosed with severe depression leads me to believe that you are already seeing a therapist.
Perhaps he or she can assist you in navigating through this.
I'm wondering how you feel when you are around your husband.
I'm not sure whether you are saying that having him there is a source of comfort for you or that it leads you to feel more sad.
Maybe it is a little bit of both.
The fact that you're reaching out says that there is something in you that wants this to be different, and that drive might be something worth tapping into.
"Why do I keep trying?" is a question that might give you some insight into what it is in you that keeps you going.
A lot of therapists/counselors are now offering video therapy.
As long as you're in the same state as a therapist offering this service, you could connect with someone helpful from the comfort of your home, even being in your small town.
I'd recommend looking into this option, because you're asking a lot of really deep questions and might benefit from having those conversations with someone who can help you find your own answers.
Hi Oak Harbor,My heart goes out to you.
Sometimes when I'm working with a client who experiences depression or anxiety, I ask them for a glimpse into their worst moments in their minds.
"What are the worst thoughts that run through your head?".
Often they struggle, perhaps out of shame; maybe they don't want me to know their worst thoughts.
But I can help them better if I do know, because then we have a place to work from.
You are feeling hopeless and worthless, and your thoughts support these intense emotions.
I don't know you, but I strongly believe that you have someone in your life who, if they heard your thoughts, would say "That's not true.
I know where her value is.
I believe that there are people who would see your value clearly, even if in small things.
Can you imagine those voices?You mentioned God, so let's invite God into the conversation.
What might God say to you.
What evidence might God.
who sees all.
have of your worth.
What hint might God give you about your purpose?You suffer from severe anxiety, and the agoraphobia works together with fear; they're a tag team.
Fear tells you perhaps that people will reject you (or something equally bad), and then agoraphobia steps in and traps you and uses as evidence the fact that no one seems to be reaching out to you to convince you that you have no worth.
Do you see their plan.
Make her scared.
keep her here alone.
convince her it's hopeless.
They both try to convince you that they are your only friends, except they're lying to you.
They only want power over you.
You forget your worth.
You forget that we all have worth.
No one is a waste.
I believe all God's creatures have worth, and that we're here to use our gifts to improve the world, and to remind each other of our value.
There are people out there needing your support as much as you need theirs.
Can you find them.
My guess is you've been alone and isolated for a very long time and it's impossible for you to see your worth in this situation.
We need mirrors to see our worth and other people are our mirrors.
We see our value in their eyes.
Do you remember the first time you questioned your worth.
What was happening that you blamed yourself for.
Can you speak to that child and tell her (or him) that whatever's happening isn't her fault.
It's that child who cannot see her own worth, probably because someone treated her as though she had none.
That's only a story though; not the truth.
Can you find another thread of a story.
Who might tell a story of your worth?Oak Harbor, I believe that there is help closer than you think.
Fear wants you to believe it's hopeless.
You reached out here.
can you reach out again.
Start with just one person, and that will lead you to somewhere.
We don't know where that somewhere is but could it be better than sitting alone.
You've stopped living.
You can choose any moment to start.
I wish you peace and hope.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
First, I want to tell you how sorry I am for the experience you had with your parents.
That is a grief and trauma that is certainly hard to imagine.
Trauma and grief can affect us in many ways, and certainly deeply personal things like our sex lives.
It may be difficult for others to make the connection, but it is there.
So, for example, if stress and trauma make you feel like you are not interested in sex, a partner may take it as apersonal rejection rather thanresponse to stress, trauma or grief.
If your husband will agree to it, couple's counseling may be your best bet.
A counselor can help you with your communication and may be able to provide some education to your husband about trauma and how it can have an impact on intimacy.
If he doesn't agree to go, it may be worth it to go on your own.
You still have a lot you are dealing with yourself.
And sometimes our personally therapy can influenceothers, so itmay be a good idea.
It is important to remember that even though you are married you have the right to make decisions about your body, and that includes when you want to have sex with it.
I hope this is helpful, and some of my colleagues may have ideas, also.
Be well.
Robin J.
Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC.
Seeking professional help does not mean that you will necessarily be admitted into an inpatient setting - though to be honest, that can become an option if you feel unsafe or if you are unable to plan for safety.
However, many clients who struggle with self-harm can find help in outpatient settings - particularly those which offer a treatment called Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT).
Looking for a DBT professional or group therapy setting may be particularly helpful, but askilled professional can help you to figure out how to identify other options even when you are experiencing overwhelming emotions.
Without knowing your location, I also recommend searching to find your local helpline or suicide prevention hotline.
The volunteers on the other end of the line can be very helpful even if your intention is not suicide and they are likely also to be able to connect you with resources in your area.
Calling into the helpline may also be a first step alternative to self-harming when you're feeling overwhelmed.
Everyone has some level of anxiety - it's what helps us respond to stressors in our lives and clues us into the fact that we need to respond to something going on.
However, if you're feeling overwhelmed by racing thoughts, feeling like you spend a lot of energy worrying about something specific or even pretty much anything at all, and you're starting to find that it's getting in your way when it comes to living your life the way you want, then I'd suggest seeing a counselor or therapist for an assessment for anxiety.
Your other concerns, though, seem pretty "normal" for someone who is in a relationship with a partner who has children.
As a married stepmother, I've been there, and as a therapist, I can tell you that the boundaries and communication skills you have in your relationships need to be healthy for you to feel healthy.
Finding some support from a group of others whose partners have children might be really helpful - being able to hear from others that you aren't alone in feeling like this can really lighten the load, and they might have some good ideas for handling certain situations.
Another option is to find a counselor or therapist who has experience working with step/blended family dynamics - because even if you're not officially married, those dynamics come into play whenever there are kids from another relationship involved.
You may even consider couples counseling so that both of you can learn to talk about your relationship needs and concerns in a way that will encourage connection and strengthen your sense of partnership.
I don't know how long ago your breakup was, but I would suggest that you reach out to friends or family that you trust and perhaps a local mental health clinician.
I'm not sure what you mean when you say that you are not able to function during the day and night.
If you are having trouble sleeping for more than a few nights, consider talking with your primary care physician.
Not sleeping can really make changes in your emotions seem much larger.
Can you find anything in your life that is the same as it was before the breakup.
This may be a starting point for you.
I wonder if you could think of and moment or two each day when you feel emotionally at peace while you are awake.
Also consider looking at things that you can control, such as when you choose to wear, eat, and who you talk to about your deepest feelings.
You mentioned that you have friends and family.
I wonder if any of them are supportive to you.
Please reach out and talk to someone about the details.
I get the sense that you feel that you are alone in this, and having someone there to help you sort out what you're feeling sounds like it would be a gift to yourself.
It is common to go through a stage of adjustment after a breakup, which may include depression symptoms.
I recommend practicing self-care: stressing on balancing your life with healthy eating, exercise, resting and looking at your spiritual life.
These steps should assist you in giving your body and mind some balance.
Practice cognitive reframing, this is training your brain to refocus, and stay on task.
Meditation is a great tool to clear your mind during the day as well; there are multiple apps that help.
If the problem persists a therapist could assist you in learning to focus and process those thoughts and feelings that cloud you mind.
¬øC√≥mo puedo manejar la depresi√≥n despu√©s de unaseparaci√≥n?He estado cayendo en una depresi√≥n profunda que no me permite funcionar durante el d√≠a.
El √∫nico memento en el que estoy en calma es cuando duermo.
Si estoy con mis amigos, familia, en el trabajo o a solas, no puedo pensar claramente.
Ya no me siento como yo.
Es com√∫n pasar por un estado de ajuste despu√©s de una separaci√≥n, y este ajuste puede incluir s√≠ntomas de depresi√≥n.
Recomiendo que practiques auto compasi√≥n: esforzarte en balancear tu vida comiendo saludable, ejercit√°ndote, descansando y analizando tu vida espiritual.
Estos pasos te ayudar√°n a balancear tu mente y cuerpo.
Tambi√©n puedes practicar reenfocar tus pensamientos para mantener tu mente clara.
La meditaci√≥n es una buena manera de practicar el enfoque mental, y existen muchas aplicaciones que te pueden ayudar.
Si el problema persiste tu consejero te puede ayudar a aprender t√©cnicas de enfoque a procesar pensamientos o sentimientos que te est√©n afectando.
If you have already been diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder, can you go back to the people who diagnosed you with those things?It may be that your parents would be open to you talking with someone because it sounds like you have done this in the past.
I don't know whether you have a specific reason that you are thinking they may have some hesitation, but if you are comfortable saying that you would really like to talk to someone because you are feeling sad or anxious (or whichever of your concerns you feel comfortable revealing to them), that may be a way to start the process.
As for how you tell them about the fact that you have harmed yourself in the past and used to be suicidal, a therapist may be able to work together with you to discuss the best way to tell them about that.
I'm not sure if you have told anyone about what you have been experiencing, but if you have some support there, perhaps they would be able to give you feedback about ways to talk with your parents as well.
You mentioned that sometimes you hear voices.
This can happen for a variety of reasons, but if the voices that you hear are giving you directions and you feel as though you might follow them, that would be a time to ask for immediate help, before you follow through with what they are telling you, perhaps by calling 800-273-8255.
They may be able to connect you with local resources and they can definitely talk with you in the moment that you call.
Family support is very helpful when having these symptoms.
I suggest looking for therapist within reach (school, through your insuranceor the community, calling 2-1-1).
Once you schedule a session, you can inform them and invite them to come in.
I have found trough sceptic parents, that once they give it a chance they open up to the process of learning and healing.
I also understand that parents may become overly concerned and overprotective when hearing about your symptoms, and that's why is important to discuss them with a therapist, normalize them, understand why you experience them, and learn how they could help you.
What stops you now from telling your parents the way you are feeling?Do you imagine asking them for therapy would be a surprise for them?If they're paying attention to you at all, then I imagine they'd feel relief to know you're aware of having some feelings within yourself of a problem.
If you believe they'd have a negative reaction to you asking for help, this may very well be part of why you are having problems in the first place.
What reaction did your parents have when you were diagnosed with the other conditions?I'd separate their willingness to help you from your sense of needing help.
If they do not want to help with finding a therapist for you, then start by looking for services available for people in your age group whose parents also do not wish to be involved in their child's emotional and psychological health.
One way to work on not always thinking so negatively about yourself is to surround yourself with people who are more positive toward you.
Do you have friends or family who are supportive?Can you find one part of you that you do not think is ugly?If your stretch marks are still bothering you, talk with a pharmacist or your primary care physician.
Sometimes there are creams or lotions you can use to decrease stretch marks and they should be able to guide you in the right direction.
You mentioned mostly physical things here.
I wonder if you can find one small thing each day that is going right and build from there.
Perhaps your son makes you smile?
Being tired can really affect almost everyone's ability to work through things that make them sad, confused, or angry, among other emotions.
If you're having difficulty sleeping, try to get into a habit of going to bed and waking up close to the same time every day.
Also consider only using the bed for sleeping so your brain knows that it's time to sleep when you are in bed.
If you are not sleeping while you are in bed, consider getting up and reading a book or doing something to make you tired before going back to bed.
Hopefully you'll be able to establish a pattern.
Sometimes sadness and other emotions make sleeping very difficult as well.
Try keeping track of your moods to see what is leading up to the changes.
If you're still struggling, consider talking with a therapist about the specifics and/or maybe talking with your primary care physician.
There are natural sleep remedies that he or she may recommend for you.
There are an infinite number of possibilities here.
You included a lot of things that you don't have.
Is there anyway that you can have some freedom for a few hours a week, at least.
A lot of times stay at home moms have groups when they meet at different public places where their children can play together and they can talk together.
I don't know how old your child or children is/are, but perhaps going back to work is something that can happen in the future.
I wonder if you may consider who you have in your life who can support you.
I don't know whether you have a spouse or parents or siblings who could help out with some different things.
I wonder if you could consider where you would like to go if you had two or three hours that you could do whatever you wanted.
If you can sort out some possible answers to that, maybe you can work together with friends or family to make it happen.
Also, again depending on the age of your children, some parents can do things while the children are sleeping, even if you are in the same room.
For example, if your children are sleeping for about two hours, maybe 30 minutes of that could be reserved for you and the rest could be for cleaning or other things you need to do.
I'm not sure whether you are referring to having a lot of activities after school or that homework is overwhelming.
Can you set aside a couple hours a week for yourself as a place to start?
It sounds like being separated from the armed forces is a major loss for you.
It takes some time to work through the emotions related to this and it often takes longer if you are trying to work through it without a lot of support.
Is there a task that you were doing during your military service that can in some way transfer into civilian life.
I don't know what else your life involves, whether you have close friends or a romantic partner, a career, activities that you like to do, and many other things.
You may be able to use some of the things that you still have today as a way to start moving forward in a different direction.
Your military service will always be a part of you.
Thank you for your service.
It sounds like you have several different things happening at the same time.
I would encourage you to call and speak to a local therapist.
While I follow that you would like your son to be unaware of what you are going through, that doesn't mean that you can't discuss your feelings with someone else.
Who is it that you trust or could speak with about this.
A therapist could be one person, but perhaps there is someone else in your life as well.
One thing that may help is to find a bead or rock that is smooth and you can hold onto it while thinking of a specific memory where you were happy.
This could be from as long ago as necessary as long as it is specific and you can place yourself back in that time when you are thinking about it.
If you think about this time while holding onto the bead, the bead may remind you of a time when you felt happy.
You could do the same thing for a time when you felt comfortable and safe.
Have you recognized any patterns for what is leading you to be sad?Can you think of anything that makes you feel good, even if it only works for a few minutes?
The answer here really depends upon your age and something called the "age of consent" in the state where you live.
In Pennsylvania, anyone over the age of 14 can provide consent for their own treatment.
As for billing purposes, try talking to some local agencies.
If you are under 18, you may be able to have Medicaid out of medical necessity so that you can have treatment.
If you are over 18, there may be some discounted rates at some agencies because of the situation you're in.
Maybe your primary care physician will be able to refer you to some local agencies.
If you are in school, you may be able to talk with a guidance counselor or someone at the school.
This would not require using your insurance.
Try doing something physical.
If you haven't exercised before, it is a good idea to get your doctor's approval first, but this can be helpful.
The more you can find out about when you want to cut, the easier it will be to figure out what else you can do.
If you are feeling sad or angry or nervous, look at what is leading up to those feelings and talk to someone about that.
You said you are alone.
I would see if you can find someone that you can trust to talk with about what you are going through.
This could be a parent, a friend, someone at school, a coworker, or any number of other people.
I've heard people say that they cut themselves as a way to feel relief from different emotions.
You're also right that when you try to focus on just not cutting, it becomes more difficult because it's what you are focused on.
While that is still something to work on, it may also be helpful to find something else you can do instead.
You said drawing doesn't work for you.
Sometimes more physical activities, such as doing a few jumping jacks, can be helpful.
If you don't exercise, it might be something to talk with your doctor about first.
The more you can learn about what makes you want to cut, the easier it will be to find out what you could do to change that.
Try talking to somebody about what you are feeling in addition to the urge to cut.
I wonder if you have moments where you feel happy?You say you have amazing friends.
I wonder if you get along with them and feel as though you can be yourself around them.
Sometimes we put a lot of pressure on ourselves to do really well at everything all the time and this can be overwhelming sometimes.
Where do you have support.
I hope you can tell someone that you are feeling sad so that you can talk about your feelings.
Sleeping can make a big difference as far as feeling sad as well.
If you're not sleeping well at night, that could be a big part of feeling sad a lot.
Perhaps you could try to find a person or two who makes you feel totally safe and comfortable and try to talk with them.
If you look back to when you feel as though you were the "funny guy," I wonder what is different now.
It may be that responsibilities have changed or any number of other things.
I don't know whether you're also saying that you feel sad or if you're saying that you feel as though you don't have any big changes in your feelings.
A lot of us tend to be really busy, and sometimes we over schedule ourselves to the point that we don't have time to have positive time for ourselves.
Sometimes even if we are spending time with friends, we're thinking about work and all of the other things we need to do.
I wonder if it feels awkward when you're with friends that you trust in an environment that you are used to.
Maybe if that is more comfortable for you, it can be a stepping stone to focusing on how you feel better in those moments.
It sounds as if you may have had an experience (or more than one) where you felt misunderstood or criticized and now reacting to people feels awkward.
If so, try going back to people you trust.
Who do you have support from?
It is possible that you have depression, but you could also be experiencing some other changes that mean that you have feelings of being sad without actually being depressed.
Your statement makes it sound like you've stopped caring about your work, but you're still going to work and doing your work.
It almost sounds like you are dissatisfied with your work.
Do you like what you do?When you said that life is pointless, what makes it that way.
What is keeping you going.
Is there something you can do each day that you can find meaning in?You mentioned that you are not sure if you need help or are just tired.
It sounds like you could certainly benefit from talking with someone about more specifics.
I'm curious about how long you have felt this way and if you are aware of anything that is contributing to it.
One thing that may help is to focus on small things that you do have control over.
If you can hold onto that sense of having control over what you wear or what you choose to eat or where you go during the day, this may help you be able to look at what is currently most important for you and consider different choices.
For example, you say you can't get a job, but I wonder if you could work with and local agencies to help you find a job, like Career Link.
You say you have no friends currently.
Are there any previous friends that you can get back in contact with?You mentioned that you have no friends.
Is there anyone in your life that you can talk with, even if it's not someone that you consider a closest friend?
Philadelphia, there is help out there.
For your daughter's sake, start somewhere.
Feelings are only that; your worst fears about who you are are only based on a few moments that haven't gone well.
Depression is so treatable, but you have to seek treatment from a professional.
Here's a quick exercise for you to do that can show you how therapy might work.
fear is telling you the worst possible story of your life, right.
So.
if there was an opposite story.
the very best story that someone could tell about you and your life.
what would that be.
Who would be telling it.
Someone who loves you.
Someone who was around you when you were that outgoing person.
Someone who's been watching your life from the start.
God.
Write that best story.
I dare you to give it as much credibility as the worst one.
Therapy is often about helping people reject their "worst stories".
I invite you to start exploring with a qualified therapist whatever barriers stand between you and your best life.
I hope you reach out soon.
It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed and stuck between wanting to improve your work situation and worrying that you won't be able to.
It is possible that the paralysis, uncertainty, and self-doubt that you describe are contributing to your difficulty in getting and maintaining a satisfying job as employers generally like to see that a potential employee is confident and can think on his or her feet.
With a competent therapist, you may be able to get more understanding of the roots of these feelings and learn how to move forward in your search for a better work life in a way that leaves you feeling confident and capable.
It seems like you may be experiencing depression symptoms, they could be the triggered by unexpected life changes, or building up throughout time.
The important part is that you have identified them and wanting to change them.
The first step is to establish a self-care routine that will help you to feel centered and motivated: go for walks, or make any physical activity that you enjoy ( be kind to yourself, anything helps at this point), eat balanced, add whole grains and fibers to your diet, make a point to rest at night and avoid naps, practice a hobby that you love, or look for a new one that you are curious about.
You mentioned that you feel unsettled in your soul: explore your spirituality, meditate about what makes your soul at peace, and find ways to practice that or surround yourself by those activities.
If you find it difficult to begin, talk to your therapist to identify roadblocks and ways to find motivation.
Suicidal and homicidal thoughts are common but serious depression symptoms, discuss them with your therapist, contact your doctor or psychiatrist, and call 9-1-1 if its and emergency.
Once you feel stable, you can focus on exploring the source of the problem and see if you need to make changes or learn coping skills that will help you manage it.
It will also be a good time to explore your spirituality and your purpose in life, that may help you to feel better with yourself and then happier around others.
You are not alone, many people fear opening up to family members about the topic of depression or mental illness.
There are many different reason why some may fear telling their parents.
The most common thoughts I hear in my office are: " My parents won't understand me", I may cause more problems to the family", "I am worried that something bad may happen if I tell them".
If possible express your current concerns and worries to your parents.
You can start the conversation with your parents by saying "I have not been feeling like myself lately, and I may want to see a counselor".
I think you are doing the right thing by going on this website and asking for help.
Just a helpful tip: positive self-talk can be beneficial before having difficult conversations with others.
For example, tell yourself something positive before talking to your parents such as "I feel confident in myself, and I am doing this to overcome my fear of talking to my parents" can help to decrease the anxiety you are feeling leading up to the conversation.
I would recommend if you are feeling depressed or down it would be beneficial to seek counseling to understand your current thoughts and behaviors.
Best of luck and hope you decide to start counseling.
Depending on your relationship with your parents, inviting them to have a conversation might be a good first step.
If they consent then you can have the opportunity to discuss your concerns with them.
Inviting someone to a conversation and getting their agreement is a great first step.
I would then make sure your location of the discussion is conducive to the conversation and once all that is considered it might be beneficial that you make a list of your concerns prior to the meeting.
this can help keep you on point.
I am so sorry you are struggling.
I do think it's a good idea to share your feelings with your parents and perhaps get some help connecting with a counselor or therapist if you feel that might help.
There are lots of ways to tell them, depending on your relationship.
Maybe saying "I wanted to tell you guys something.
sometimes I worry that I might be depressed.
Or, some folks will write a letter, or even send a text.
The most important thing is that you tell someone you trust so you don't feel so miserable.
I hope this helps.
Best of luck.
It sounds like you are feeling pretty stuck, lonely, and hopeless; like you have a desire to be more connected to people and to find purpose in life, but are not sure what to do.
I am glad to hear that you have at least one friend and I think it is great that you are reaching out for more connection.
If you can, working with a therapist who is competent in treating depression may be a huge benefit to you and help you to regain a sense of meaning, motivation, and connection.
Additionally, anything you can do to give yourself a little break from the feeling of pointlessness and any ruminating thoughts you may be having may be of help.
I know it may sound pointless in the moment, and you may feel a great deal of inertia in doing so, but you may find that if you force yourself to do something small that is pleasurable, like taking a walk for example, there's a good chance you will be glad that you did so after the fact.
Thank you for reaching out.
Anxiety and Depression are challenging experiences to live with and to manage on a daily basis.
I would say that both are challenges to overcome but solutions to living healthy and well exist.
Step 1: Talk about it.
With friends, family, partners, counselors, and other trusted people in your life.
Step 2: Create a plan with a counselor to learn new skills that help you recognize and manage your symptoms.
Step 3: Don't give up.
Working on yourself can be difficult and hard at the beginning.
Stick with it and you will be able to find exercises, tools, and resources that help you live well.
It is challenging to maintain motivation at all times, anxiety and depression can set in which can make interacting with others a struggle, it can lead us to do things that make us not feel good and we become isolated.
This ends up feeding into a cycle that maintains the anxiety/depression loop and can be really challenging to step out of it.
You are in a place of awareness and this is the first step in making changes that can help you feel better.
It is really one step at a time, a concrete plan, with self-compassion to build the solid ground you need to come out of this.
One of the first steps is to manage anxiety and depression symptoms are to establish a good self-care routine.
Start with the most basic things: Eating balanced meals, sleeping at from 6-8 hours and exercise at least 30 minutes a day.
These will help you to regulate the chemical imbalance that affects your mood, plus exercising gives you time to vent and be distracted from your thoughts.
Once basic self-care is established, I suggest that is a good time to start exploring the source of these feelings, and address them trough therapy.
If you have difficulty initiating self-care routine talk to your therapist about what motivates you and pushes you to do things, you might find the key during the process.
You could also contact your physician or a psychiatrist to discuss medication options if it's too challenging to begin basic self-care.
What happens in your life on Wednesdays that you feel like crying.
Crying is natural.
Crying on Wednesdays may also be natural if some type of regular event or situation comes up for you then that you don't like, feel oppressed by and have no way of avoiding.
Maybe you would qualify for a diagnosis for depression.
This matters less than what you will do with a diagnosis.
Very often people feel some type of relief from hearing a professional tell them what they "have".
Don't let yourself get talked into taking pills because now you "have something".
Pills change your mood.
Only you can change your life.
The diagnosis matters so the therapist gets paid from insurance.
It is a good sign that you know whether you feel true emotions or fake ones.
This is a clear sign of knowing about yourself.
Your mind feeling like a "maze" is a little too vague to know if you mean there are too many thoughts at once so that you have difficulty knowing which ones to examine first, or if "maze" means you don't know what your thoughts are and feel lost for this reason.
Depression which is addressed by a person can become quite liberating because you will remove what bothers you so much in your life that it weighs you down and depresses you.
First, let me say that you are a survivor and a warrior.
Managing 1 child by yourself is difficult, but twins is a whole different ballgame.
Anxiety can affect us at any time anywhere.
This is the challenge, especially when we have so many things to manage each day.
There are several methods and practices that help manage and even reduce symptoms of anxiety.
It will depend on what works best for you.
Talk with friends, a counselor, or a loved one who can offer you support and feedback as you navigate this process of learning what works for you.
When all else fails; make sure you are in a safe place, pause for a deep, cleansing breath in, a long exhale out, and ask yourself, "What do I want in this moment?" Now you can begin again.
This may be happening because you and the others are not connected to each other on a level which reaches your emotions.
Loneliness may show the absence of feeling a variety of emotions when you are among others.
How many friends you have doesn't affect whether you and someone else feel emotionally engaged with one another.
Consider if you feel like concentrating your friendship on more intensively sharing your feelings with a few of your friends.
This may lead to fewer friends who are also more meaningful to you and your feeling a decrease of loneliness.
I agree with Cory.
Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) does seem to help a lot of people who struggle with anxiety.
It's not the only type of therapy that can help, but it seems to help people in a way that is more natural and realistic.
As Cory mentioned, anxiety is something that is part of life, so therapies that indicate we can get rid of it are questionable.
Our natural inclination when we have anxiety is to STOP any and all things that may cause it or provoke it.
We do this because we think it will help, but it actually doesn't.
Anxiety usually has us rehashing the past or rehearsing the futurewhile ignoring the present.
ACT helps folks who have those kinds of tendencies.
As a past sufferer of anxiety myself, I have learned that it is a natural part of life, it is a natural part of us, the longer we try to run from it the more it entangles us in its clutches, if we deny certain parts of ourselves we will become depressed or even oppressed, the only way to deal with anxiety is to embrace it and accept it, and in fighting the fight without fighting we will eventually win, I would encourage you to look into Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, your answer I think lies in that area of research.
Hope this helps.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
It certainly sounds like you don't like how things are going.
Here are a few thoughts and ideas: If you haven't seen a primary care provider in a while, you may want to.
There are health conditions that can affect your mood and energy levels, even at your age.
It doesn't hurt to get checked out.
If they find the cause, they may be able to treat it and improve the symptoms.
In addition, most primary care providers are trained to be able to manage medication for patients who have mild, moderate, and sometimes severe depression.
So, don't be surprised if your primary care doctor offers to put you on an anti-depressant if they diagnose you with depression.
Medication is not the only way to treat depression, but sometimes it is necessary depending on different factors.
2.
You may want to consider counseling, since it is another effective way to treat depression.
A counselor will help you explore the factors that may be leading to depressive symptoms in the first place.
This could include thoughts, behaviors, beliefs, life experiences, and other things.
3.
Finally, to answer your question about whether these feelings are "normal.
These symptoms could be the sign of an underlying general health or mental health condition.
It is important to remember that even if these symptoms are "abnormal" it doesn't mean that YOU are.
Millions of people struggle with depression.
So remember, the symptoms are the problem, not YOU.
Hope this helps.
It has been said that depression is often the result of a blocked goal.
Often people struggle with both anxiety and depression but have difficulty determining which is the most important issue.
For some, depression is the result of frequently blocked goals and when their predominant issues are evaluated, they discover that they are anxious (worried) about a lot of areas in their life but seem to find no relief.
When there is no relief and there have been numerous attempts (either in their mind or in practical application) to resolve the anxiety, depression is often the result.
In this type of case, depression is not the main or underlying issue.
The anxiety is the underlying issue.
Having "a lot on my mind" sounds like anxiety.
Unresolved anxiety can lead to feelings of depression which are often associated with "emptiness.
In the question above, I would want to evaluate all of the issues surrounding having "a lot on my mind" and determine where these might be coming from.
Has there been ongoing rejection from peers.
From family.
If so, why does this seem to be happening.
Isolation is often a protective measure that one implements to avoid further pain.
Where does that need to protect originate.
Are there unmet needs from childhood.
Are there traumatic life events that have created a need to self-protect as a defense mechanism?We can feel "alone" even when in a crow of people or at a party.
This has nothing, in this case, to do with being around people.
It has more to do with how we view ourselves.
If there is a prevailing message or script that has been internalized that says, "You are worth nothing" or "You don't deserve the company of others" then being around people will not alleviate the problem but only exacerbate it.
I would want to evaluate how one feels about themselves and what negative messages one has received and has repeated to oneself over time.
The Developmental Needs Meeting Strategy is a therapy aimed at addressing unmet childhood needs.
If there is specific trauma that is associated with socializing with people, then EMDR can be very helpful in desensitizing and reprocessing the trauma.
Looking at whether this individual's issue with emptiness is straight depression or whether it is depression as a result of unresolved anxiety is key to determining a treatment strategy.
There are many possible issues to consider as depression social anxieties, even medical illness.
For some, even grief creates a sense of isolation, pains from relationship break up.
Also, obsessive thinking can be debilitating.
Seeking at least one trusted friend or family member can be a start towards increased personal support.
Some persons may simply feel connected by spending time with someone as this, even if not talking directly on issues, just being around another is positive.
Obviously there is more to explore on this question, given minimal information from two sentences.
There is a difference in someone agreeing to try something and agreeing to continue to do it.
Have you ever been willing to try something and then decided you did not like it.
A type of food.
A sport.
A new restaurant.
A type of dance.
So this does not mean that things have changed between you.
It does mean that the two of you may need to spend some time to find out what you both like.
Instead of looking at it as a rejection, look at it as a challenge, an adventure that the two of you can go on as explorers together.
Some couples have even found it helpful to each write down ten things they would like the other person to try and then each person can pick three things from the other person's list to add into their life together when they chose to over the next few weeks.
If the symptoms are to the extent that they are affecting your ability to function, you may want to consider seeking treatment.
PTSD, anxiety, and depression all typically respond well to treatment if provided by a trained clinician.
Common types of treatment for PTSD that you may want to look into include Cognitive Processing Therapy or EMDR.
The nice things about Cognitive Processing Therapy is that it is time limited and only lasts 17 sessions typically.
"I understand that at times it's difficult to share with our parents what we have been trough, due to fear of judgment or punishment; but I have noticed that keeping our experiences secret, intensifies them.
And Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can haunt us for a long time if we do not learn to process the memories that cause those symptoms.
If you have been victim of a traumatic event that you are not prepared to share with your parents, it's important that you seek help with a counselor, therapist or psychologist.
Trauma Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is a great technique to cope with physical symptoms, you could also use Narrative therapy, Creative Therapy or Journaling as a way to express memories and process them with your therapist.
A psychiatrist can also prescribe medication to manage the symptoms, but is very important that you address the trauma so you can heal and go back to live your life.
Many organizations like the United Way (2-1-1 in many states) offer resources and referrals to put you in touch with mental health providers, you could also talk to your school counselor, doctor or church to find referral that could help.
Tip: You don't have to tell you story to each person you ask for help, you can just start by asking for a counselor referral.
What is the reason you wouldn't want your parents to know you are trying to find your way through PTSD?Would they believe that you've been traumatized.
And, do you feel that your parents had a hand in creating your trauma?There is no need to tell your parents you have PTSD unless you feel that doing so will help you.
Maybe you intuitively realize that they don't want to understand or know about this.
How did you come to the conclusion that you have PTSD?If you are working with a therapist, and a minor, then the laws of your State dictate what information your parents can ask your therapist about you.
If you are a grown person and working with a therapist, you have complete legally protected privacy of what you talk about with your therapist.
In any case, a good starting point is to know exactly your own reason for wishing to keep your psychological situation hidden from your parents.
Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a very complex issue.
It is the root cause of many other issues including depression, anxiety and anger to name a few.
Re-experiencing the event is a telltale symptom of PTSD.
One of the best things you can do for yourself is to find someone who specializes in this area to help you work through the symptoms associated with this disorder as well as directly addressing the event/events that initially caused the symptoms.
There are various treatment methods available to helping professionals that are successful in treating this disorder.
In the meantime there is a book called "The Body Keeps the Score", it is informative and may be helpful for you on your journey.
It is my hope that you are not dealing with this alone.
Best wishes!
Unfortunately, ptsd is not something that can be cured.
Ptsd can be managed through therapy.
Mindfulness can assist in redirecting thoughts and gaining further control over paranoia.
Therapy is confidential and there are different ways you can obtain treatment.
Mental health professional have availability to provide therapy online, on the phone or in person.
It's never too late to get help with grief.
Get help as soon as possible before you are feeling the same way 5 years from now.
You will always miss your Dad but getting help with coping with his loss will make life easier to live.
What your are experience is normal for most women.
We usually forget about self and totally focus on our children putting our personal wants and needs aside.
So to answer your question of how do you get to know yourself I usually do a 6 session course with my client by having them answer questions such as the following in the first session: What do I love.
(other than your children) What are my own needs and desires.
What 3 things have I accomplished in my life that I'm most proud of.
What are 5 strengths or qualities I have.
What is one event that had a major impact on my life.
How have that event affected my life today.
For their homework assignment after the 1st session, they are asked to write a letter to self tell self what they love, cherish, appreciate and even admire about themselves.
Most women feel awkward at first, but I remind them that the truth is that only to the extent that you are able to love and value yourself, you are to love and support others.
I really love that you're taking responsibility for your pessimism here.
There's a modern parable about two young brothers.
One child is in a room full of every toy you could imagine, and he's miserable; the other is in a room full of horse manure, and he's flinging it around with joy.
So then someone comes and asks the first boy why he's so miserable, because he has so much.
He says that he's missing the one toy that he really wants.
Then the brother is asked why he's so happy in a room full of manure, and he says "With all this sh-t, there's gotta be a pony in here somewhere!"Happiness is a state of mind, and I hear you saying that you used to be happy, so maybe this means you believe it's possible.
That's a wonderful start.
Research on depression shows us that it is very linked to pessimism.
You say "I always see the worst end of things".
That's pessimism.
Life is like an elephant.
If all you see is roughness, backup and walk around; the view will change.
Not taking credit for good things and blaming yourself for the bad ones is typical especially of women.
The feelings you are having are temporary; you're in a slump and it's a good time to sit down and look at how you can make the picture look different.
I think you know how; but you lack energy right now.
If tackling this on your own isn't enough, a therapist can help you take that step back to look at the big picture and help you rebuild your natural resilience and capacity for joy.
I wish you the best.
I agree; you need more care and support.
No one deserves to feel alone, or like they hate themselves.
We're all wonderful, imperfect, complicated people and we're at our best when we're all helping each other.
I'm glad you wrote this question, because a lot of people have this feeling sometimes.
I can tell that you're smart, because you seem to sense that the two things you wrote about are connected.
you "not being yourself", and then how you felt when your grandma died.
When Grandma died, you needed and deserved extra love and support, but the people around you didn't seem to give it to you, maybe.
My hunch is that they wanted to, but that they didn't know how much you needed it, or what you needed exactly.
The older you get, the more you will have to take charge of letting people know what you need.
Maybe this is one of the suckier parts of being mature, but that's how it works.
When you started middle school, it sounds like you changed; you got more quiet, right.
That must have felt weird, to not be acting like yourself.
It sounds like fear tricked you into thinking people wouldn't like you.
Fear can be silly.
So then, fear got you to not show yourself, and when we don't show ourselves, people can't see who we are; they don't know us as well and then they don't know what we need and they can't care for us as well either.
Fear of not being liked isolated you from the people who love you.
It does that to a lot of us.
So, where you're at right now is because of what fear did to you, and also because when Grandma died you were already isolated so people couldn't see your pain and know that you needed support.
There's a simple solution, but you'd have to be brave enough to look fear in the face and say "Get off my back!".
"You're not helping me by telling me lies.
Can you be brave enough to go back to your old, louder, self.
If you talk to the people closest to you.
tell them what you think and how you feel, then they'll be able to give you the care that you want and deserve.
I wish you well as you try this!
Hi Tennessee, There is nothing wrong with you.
There are many good reasons why you didn't say no.
You didn't say no because you were caught off guard and unprepared; there is no place in life that teaches girls or boys how to manage it when someone crashes a sexual boundary.
You also live in a culture where girls are encouraged to be cooperative and not upset people, and to put the needs of other people first.
You instinctively want people to like you, and people can be very coercive sexually.
You said it yourself; you "gave in".
He wore you down.
There's nothing wrong with you.
It wasn't your job to say no.
Women aren't the gatekeepers of male sexual urges.
It was his job to get your consent first.
He pressured you into it.
A good therapist would help you to dig deep and uncover all these barriers to saying no and more.
If you said no, what might happen then.
What might that mean about you.
What are you avoiding feeling.
Unloved, unwanted, cold.
What would you have to believe in order to be confident enough to say no.
That you didn't have to do anything you don't want to do.
That you're special, or that sexuality is special.
Would you need a better understanding of what sexual assault is?I love that you want to do some work here to strengthen your sexual boundaries, and I urge a widespread conversation about what consent it.
Men and women of all ages could use more of this training.
It's sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed with intrusive thoughts and are feeling very criticized by others as well.
I think it is great that you are reaching out and I can tell that you want this to change.
Working with a competent therapist may be a good option for getting some more clarity about what is going on, developing ways to cope, and eventually getting relief from these overwhelming experiences.
Are there any times or moments in which you feel other than "empty".
Start with knowing the context of when you feel something other than empty.
If there is no recent example, then in your mind, go back in time to think of when you felt something other than empty.
Recall what you liked about this time, whether you were by yourself or with others, what type of activity you were involved at the time of non-emptiness.
How did you come to your conclusion that your life purpose is to reproduce and die.
If this is what your parents, siblings and extended family believe, it is possible that you have a broader view of yourself and haven't yet uncovered a way of defining your own philosophy of living.
Give yourself the time to browse around online, or in person social meet ups, on your interests.
It is possible you will discover entire new areas of life and ways of considering life, that are brand new to you and which connect to your true self.
This is one way of respecting your individuality, which of itself, may decrease your sense of emptiness.
Maybe you have depression.
The name of your condition matters much less than the descriptions you wrote of how you feel.
Since you've observed how you sometimes interact with people and realize you aren't happy with the result, you've a very solid starting point for reflecting on your deeper wishes in relating to others.
Start with asking reasons of yourself about the puzzling aspects of how you're engaging with others.
Theorizing as to "why" you feel that pushing people away is "easier", and easier than what?Googling the keywords of how you feel, may open a starting point for ideas on knowing yourself and what you wish for.
Hi Loyal, This is a common question.
I suggest that you not diagnose yourself (only a physician can do that), but the symptoms you mention are certainly common signs of depression; rarely happy, emotional numbness, hopelessness, isolation.
Depression is very common.
Research suggests that one in three people may experience it in their lifetime and at any one point, ten percent of adults may be experiencing it.
Most therapists are very good at spotting the signs and treating accordingly, although only a physician can prescribe medication.
The great news is that depression is treatable.
Some people experiencing depression may benefit from medication (often to lift the heaviness of the illness enough so that one can focus on psychotherapy), and therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy and behavioural activation therapy have demonstrated a clear ability to reduce symptoms of depression.
Even if medication helps, seeing a therapist to look at the roots of your depression and to build coping skills is very important.
A qualified therapist will help you look at the barriers to happiness in your specific case and suggest a course of treatment.
You are not alone, and you don't have to suffer.
Keep asking questions and you will find your answers!
You may be pressuring yourself to be the one person who fixes the relationship.
This is impossible because the relationship belongs to both of you.
Has he told you whether he feels about himself that how he interacts with you, is contributing to problems in the couple?Is he willing to understand what you're asking of him, without shutting down with whatever he is feeling when he feels blamed?Your feelings of distrust are the natural outcome of not being properly heard and understood.
He's not willing to listen to you, so of course you're frustrated and this frustration comes out in all sorts of uneasy feelings.
Willingness to hear each other in a non-defensive way, sometimes requires a couples therapist's assistance.
Ask your husband if he's willing to understand, not judge you.
Be willing yourself to do the same.
If after trying and getting nowhere, you'll know when to stop trying on your own as a couple and to find a specifically trained couples therapists.
Warning, not all therapists are trained to do couples therapy.
Ask the therapist if they've had specialized training in couples therapy.
Otherwise, having a referee type therapy session of, "what do you think", "what do you think?", isn't going to do anything except frustrate both of you further.
Good luck!
Since you realize that hearing voices in your head is not usual for you, then definitely there is a problematic situation happening within your awareness of who you are.
if you recently started taking a new drug or increased dosage of one you already were taking, and the voices started shortly after, then yes, it is possible medication created your problem.
Start by telling whoever gave you the presecription, about the problem you're having.
Crazy" has some flexibility as to whether someone is this way or not.
Certainly a very positive sign that you're not crazy, is that you're self-aware of a problem within yourself.
And, you're responsible toward yourself and making effort to address this problem.
Crazy people usually don't do responsible behaviors.
This can certainly be a side effect of some medications.
If the voices are so powerful that you can not sleep or they are constantly present, you shouldn't wait any time, but go and see your doctor straight away.
Hi Boise, I'm sorry that you've lost this love.
The fact that you were planning marriage and a future tells me that you meant something very special to each other at that time.
It's different now.
you're not together anymore, but you can't accept this, right.
Good for you for identifying that this situation is damaging your life.
You've been grieving for longer than you were together.
Oh, but really you've not been grieving.
you're stuck still loving her instead of moving forward.
Unrequited love is a recipe for eternal heartache.
Let's look at some possible blocks to moving forward.
It could be that there's something unfinished for you.
Maybe you felt hurt and you didn't have the chance to say so, or you felt you hurt her and you didn't have the chance to make it right.
Maybe there's a burning question you need to ask or something else you need to say.
Maybe you want to tell her you've never stopped loving her, and see if she feels the same way.
If this is the case, you have two choices, right.
You can reach out and say what you need to say, or you can stop ruminating on that question and let it go.
If you reach out, there's no guarantee it will go well or that she'll even respond.
Maybe write her a letter and don't send it (or send it.
it might be worth the risk).
Use the next paragraph to help you decide.
Do you know how she feels.
How did it end.
Did she end it.
Was it ended just because of the distance, or are there more differences between you that didn't work.
Sometimes people are so in love that they can't clearly see that the other person isn't in love with them anymore.
Use the information you have about what she wants for her life.
can you honour what she says she needs.
If she's asked for distance, you would do well to honour that.
A key to moving forward: look at your thoughts and where they're getting stuck.
Write it down.
What bad thing can happen if you let it go.
Or "If I move forward, that will mean.
Keep going.
what would be the worst part of that.
This kind of exploring can help you identify your stuck place.
It is possible that you've turned this ending into some kind of negative meaning about you or your future.
As in "If this person doesn't love me, then I'm unlovable", or "No one will ever love me as much as she did".
So your need to cling to her in your heart is your way of rejecting that negative message about yourself or the future.
Can you find another way to reject that message.
Try saying these things to yourself:I know she loved me.
There is evidence of that.
I was a good partner.
There is evidence of that.
It's part of life to fall in love and then have to move forward.
I can do this and learn from it.
Many people like me.
that's how I know I'm lovable.
It's normal to feel sad.
I'm grieving a lost love.
I want to move forward and not stare in the rearview mirror.
I know more love awaits me if I can get fear out of the way.
If this person loved me, others can too, (but not if I'm clinging to some old memory)These are the kinds of things a therapist would explore with you.
I wish you well!
Hi Campbell River,You say you have anger but you don't mention how it shows.
Or maybe it doesn't.
Are you aggressive with your girlfriend.
Since you mention depression, I wonder if you're bottling it all up somewhere instead of letting it show at all.
If this is the case, I admire your ability to not lash out at someone who's hurting you.
However, if they are totally unexpressed, anger turn inward and shift into depression.
When sheyells at you, what do you do.
Is this the moment that you feel the most angry.
I wouldn't be surprised; anger is a normal response to someone yelling at you.
Something about anger.
it's often there to cover up our more vulnerable emotions.
Under the anger I wonder if you feel worthless, powerless, scared, unloved.
Part of the trick to reducing anger is identifying those other emotions and expressing them.
You say you don't know how to deal with life, and I think maybe you mean you don't know how to deal with emotions.
Lots of people don't.
This is confusing for most of us.
What am I feeling.
Why is it so strong.
I'm afraid to express it for fear of hurting someone (or falling apart, or feeling alone.
).
How do I know what to express and what to be quiet about?These are all great questions to ask yourself, and a qualified therapist can help you sort it all out and support you in your growth.
I wish you well!
Not having support from your family for such a significant problem, is a problem itself.
How about your friends, are any of them nurturing or treat you kindly when you bring up that you've got this problem?Are any of your friends willing to accommodate the fact that right now you've got panic attacks from driving and being a passenger?Maybe being and feeling accepted while you're in this current phase of your life, would help diminish the panic attacks.
If no support is coming to you, then a next step would be to evaluate the relationships in your life and to develop standards and expectations of others, especially that they are considerate of your great need at this time.
Its possible you are bearing the emotional burden of a lot more people in your life than yourself.
If no one wants to show they care about this situation, then release yourself from trying to please and satisfy everyone's wish that you be better, while they ignore your need for their support.
Be realistic in what you're able to give back to people who want to be blind to your emotional need.
Thinking this way will at first raise your anxiety level from fear of losing everyone.
Eventually, you'll stabilize within yourself and know that all you're asking for is some support for having a tough time.
Hopefully, the others will be more responsive to you.
If they don't you still know that you're being reasonable for what you'd like.
Good question.
There are resources out there - people to talk to.
I'm not sure that you don't feel emotion or that you are frightened of the depth of your emotions.
From what you write, the context of your growing up years had people telling you to not feel.
Little kids and babies don't remember whether or not they had emotions since birth.
This is information someone told you or was part of your family system.
Possibly your family was afraid of their emotions or of you knowing yours.
Similarly, your comparison of being human means being monster like, is not an obvious connection.
Besides, monsters are an idea, they aren't real.
They embody what someone considers the worst qualities of themselves or the human species.
Again, I wonder whether you've taken on stories you heard growing up about how unacceptable and bad you are.
A way to start learning your emotions is to start in simple, basic ways to ask yourself what you are feeling in the situations that you believe emotions would belong.
If on the first bright sunny and warm day of the year, you remind yourself to notice what you're feeling in response to this, you'll be taking one step toward awareness of your emotions.
If someone buys you a birthday present, be aware of how you feel.
Keep adding awareness to situations and see if this builds an ease with feeling emotions.
Your instinct to help your daughter, is natural.
How you proceed depends a lot on whether she recognizes she has a psychological and emotional problem, or if only you see this from observing her.
Also, her age matters a lot in what way would be most likely to succeed in addressing the problems you describe.
If you and your daughter have different opinions as to whether or not she has problems, and she is above the legal age of when you have authority over her life, then you can only suggest to her that therapy may benefit her.
If your daughter is in your legal control, then you can locate a counselor nearby, discuss your situation with that person, and depending on the outcome, you'd be within your parenting right to take your daughter to a counselor.
Starting therapy without willingness to do so, is risky.
The person may feel resentful enough to not participate.
And, sometimes the counselor is skillful enough to find a path to your daughter, or any patient's self-interest and engage them in therapy.
Family counseling, regardless of your daughter's age, is another way to bring your concerns to your daughter's attention, in a therapy environment in which a counselor would be able to help distinguish the seriousness of your daughter's psychological problem, from simply a difference in viewpoints between you and your daughter, in how to handle certain situations.
Also, if you believe your daughter is a threat to herself, then instead of this slower route, get in touch with the emergency psychological assessment service in your town, for a more immediate response.
Congrats on the birth of your son!Was your mom's request for you to leave her house, one which she asked awhile ago or was this her greeting when you walked in the door?My question is whether your mom had some changed circumstance in her life, whether she and you discussed living arrangements prior to your son's birth, or whether nothing was talked about, you assumed you'd be living with her, she assumed you wouldn't, and the two of you didn't speak to one another about any of this.
Depending on the answers, there may be clues as to handling future expectations of others, especially your mom.
From what you write, the women's home is supportive of your basic daily living needs.
It is good news that the people who run this home know and offer community resources.
In your interactions with the staff of the women's home, ask all the questions necessary so you'll have a clear understanding of the apartment lease, anything at all that is on your mind about becoming employed and finding childcare.
The point is to have all the major steps you're about to start, addressed.
This way, you'll be minimizing the possibility of any sudden bad news by the women's home, told to you.
Sending lots of good luck!
Deciding whether or not psychiatric medicine is a good option can be complicated, as you have noticed, and only a person who is licensed to prescribe can give you medical advice regarding medications.
While there is sometimes relief from symptoms from medication, as you have pointed out, there are often negative side effects as well.
While I can't give you advice on whether or not to continue medication, I would urge you to take an inventory of the positive and negative effects that you have noticed and educate yourself as much as possible about the short and long-term costs and benefits of psychiatric medication.
If you can find a doctor, psychiatrist, or ARNP who is competent in mental health, it may also benefit you to consult with them.
One thing that I am wondering about is, what is your support system like, in regards to your fight against depression.
Are you seeing a therapist or attending any therapeutic or supportive group.
While there are many things that one can do on their own to work through challenges such as depression, psychotherapy has been shown time and again in research to be highly effective and sometimes having a relationship with a caring, competent professional who understands depression and ways of helping can make a huge difference.
As silly as it may sound, making sure that we are getting the right amount of *restful* sleep is very important when we are feeling low.
The reason for this is the lack of proper sleep significantly affects our ability to problem solve and critically evaluate our situation and can lead to a domino effect in our thinking.
I know you feel that you may be losing your friendships, but what are the facts that have led to this belief.
Really ask yourself, "are they facts?" or are they your perspective on events.
In regards to your coping behaviours at night, it sounds very isolating and also very silenced.
As opposed to the sad music, why not try all music, allowing yourself to experience the wide breadth of emotions that are circling within you.
One of the other recommendations I would make would be to try and journal about some of those thoughts and fears in order to release them in a positively cathartic way.
Some of the behaviours that you have mentioned are a bit more significant, though and I would recommend speaking with someone directly in the near future.
Feeling alone and/or isolated is almost always associated with being depressed.
As humans, we need connection and interaction with others in order to feel satisfied.
Given that you are frequently thinking about death, I highly recommend that you see a mental health professional as soon as possible to help assess your immediate needs and address any underlying issues that may be contributing to your feelings of loneliness and depression.
The good news is that with proper, consistent treatment and commitment to change, things can really turn around for you.
A therapist can work with you on building enjoyable activities into your daily routine, change maladaptive thought patterns that contribute to your sadness, and help with exploring what has gotten you to where you are.
By learning about where your sadness originates, engaging in preferred activities, and changing your thought patterns, you should begin feeling relief from the burden of depression.
What will likely result, is further opportunity to find social outlets and an increased ability to connect with others.
Don't give up.
Create some short terms goals that you can likely achieve and make your treatment a priority and a focus.
You have already taken the first step in getting better by writing to this site.
Keep on this path and believe in yourself.
Best of luck to you!
Hi Ohio,I'm so glad you reached out.
I urge you to talk to someone close to you, today, about your feelings, and to also seek professional help for your serious thoughts and feelings.
We want you to be safe, and your depression is treatable.
Loneliness is so painful, and when we feel lonely, this can lead to fears that we are not worthy of love or that the world is just a cold and lonely place.
Neither are truths; only thoughts.
Once we have fears like this though, we start to pull away from people, the fears keep us isolated, which makes the thoughts worse, and the cycle continues.
We all have a place in this world.
We all have value, we all deserve love, and there are safe, wonderful people out there waiting to meet you and care for you.
Can you take a moment right now to become more in touch with three things.
First, who in your life, if they were sitting beside you right now, would say "wait a minute.
I love you!" What is the evidence that you are already cared about.
Then ask yourself "what is the evidence that I am lovable?" What qualities do you have that make you a good friend or person.
The third question is "what tells you the world is a good place?" What evidence do you see that there are people out there who care about others?Please reach out to someone today as you ask yourself those questions.
I wish you the best.
It sounds like you have been a positive support for your fiancee.
There is no doubt that this situation is a great challenge for the both of you.
While it may feel like you are responsible for her health and happiness, it is important that you understand that you, on your own, won't be able to resolve her mental health issues.
Based on what you have explained, it sounds like she needs to get a medical and/or psychiatric evaluation.
Whether or not she decides to take medication is her (and your) decision, but keeping an open mind about treatment options is important.
I suggest that she see a therapist on her own in order to better understand and cope with her anxiety and depression, especially given her suicidal thoughts.
You would also likely benefit from therapy, individual or couple's therapy, in order to address how you are feeling and best learn how to support her and your relationship.
I wish the very best for both of you and hope that things will improve sooner than later.
It sounds like you are feeling like things are hopeless and out of control and you're not sure what to do about it.
If you can find a competent therapist to work with, together you may be able to come up with some strategies for alleviating the overwhelming distress that you are experiencing and gain some insight into what may be contributing to these challenges.
Additionally, a therapist may be able to support you in getting back on your feet in regards to work, a place to live, and showing up with your partner in a way that will be more satisfying to you.
It sounds like you are feeling very unsure and out of place and the prospect of continuing to feel as you do now for the remainder of schooling seems daunting.
Without getting to know more about you and your experiences here and at home, it is hard to say what you should do, however, I think exploring these things with a competent therapist may help you to discover the answer.
Hi Helena,I felt a bit sad when I read this.
This is a new term for me.
"semi-relationship".
What does it mean.
I know that today's culture for young people is more of a "hook-up" culture than a dating one.
Maybe that means that you develop connections to people but you keep yourself from hoping for a full relationship because no one is doing that anymore.
That makes me feel sad.
I hear a lot of young women (I'm not sure you're female, but that's my guess) say that they struggle with hook-ups because they can't let themselves hope for a phone call after a hook-up.
Research tells us that, after a hook-up, college age women tend to feel used and unworthy, and men tend to feel guilty.
I think this scenario works better for men than women, but many of both genders are left unsatisfied in the end.
This is only one possible explanation for your anxiety.
that your gut knows that it wants to feel fully coupled with someone but you struggle with whether it's okay to want or expect that.
Maybe take a moment and listen to anxiety.
Anxiety tends to try to convince us that something's wrong with us or something bad's going to happen.
Anxiety sometimes prefers to stay vague (it's more difficult to refute it then), but you can try to clarify it's whisperings by asking yourself these questions: What am I afraid of.
What is the worst thing that might happen here.
Then what might happen, and what would be the worst part of that.
Keep going until you find the very worst thing that might happen.
Might someone not want you.
might you feel rejected.
or feel not good enough.
you might get hurt?Then when you find that core fear, you can look at your life and I bet you'd find a place where that idea or fear originated.
A big moment (or many smaller ones) when you actually DID feel or get rejected or abandoned or hurt.
In the end, it's a feeling you're trying to avoid (not life or relationship), and anxiety is trying to help you avoid it by making you overcautious.
But this doesn't work for you.
Good.
With the help of a qualified therapist, you can learn to talk back to anxiety and move forward in life and love with calm.
confidence.
I am very sorry for the pain you are suffering.
Losing the most significant person in your life is extremely painful and breakups are often equated to a death.
There will certainly be a grieving process that you go through and time passing will allow the hurt to subside.
With that being said, seeing a therapist is highly recommended as it sounds like continuous support may be necessary for healing to take place.
Anytime sadness causes thoughts of suicide or self harm, it is important to get help immediately.
A therapist can help you by validating your feelings and what you are going through, while also working with you to move through the grieving process, adopt new hobbies, social outlets, and goals for your future.
While starting over and trying out new ways of being may seem like a daunting task, it will only make things easier and give you a sense of hope and purpose for your future.
With the new year right around the corner, this could be viewed as a good time and opportunity to get reacquainted with yourself and set goals related to living a more fulfilling life.
Hang in there.
With a support system in place and a healthy mindset, things can only get easier.
Best of luck to you!
I admire your courage for stating your view about anti-depressants.
Questioning mainstream thinking and being in touch with your own views, are signs of strength and clarity in a person.
As a therapist, I always tell my patients to avoid anti-depressants.
Their effectiveness is in suppressing a person's mood and feelings.
If someone does not know how they are feeling, then they will have more difficulty in understanding themselves, their uncertainties and hesitations, and overall, how they relate to others and what they expect from others.
Anti-depressants mask how someone feels.
In a crisis, temporarily taking anti-depressants may be helpful.
If someone is so overwhelmed that they are not functioning, then suppressing unhappy feelings so that the person can get through a day, may be of benefit for a short while.
Basically, respect and follow your own opinion about anti-depressants.
Your view is shared by many.
It is a minority opinion, and very valid.
If you would like to shop for a therapist, ask the person on the phone, what their opinions are about anti-depressants.
Ideally, you will eventually find a therapist who thinks in a way which is similar to you, or at least similar enough that you will have a sense that you are able to trust working with them on whatever you define as problematic.
I hope you will have an easy and productive therapist search!
Having time all to yourself may be necessary so you have time to reflect on your own identity and values, become more clear on what matters most to you, and with this increased self-understanding, be able to attract people who will feel like satisfying friends.
Having a relationship with someone whom you push away and are pushed away, with someone who is irritating, seems to have limited benefit for each of you.
Maybe you are together from fear of being alone, and being alone is exactly what you may now need in your life in order to draw more favorable people to you.
If you are someone who usually has a job, pays or contributes to household bills, and generally manages your own daily life, then here are some suggestions.
Start with small changes in your life so that you will feel successful in developing little areas of personal happiness.
Since the people whom you currently are in your life "aren't helping much", consider branching out your life so that you are with those with whom you do feel help you.
Follow your natural interests.
If you like reading, look online for a local book club.
If you like watching birds, look up a bird watching group.
Social isolation increases the intensity of negative feelings.
Also, the way healthcare is set up in the US, psychiatrists spend 15 minutes asking a person questions and then giving them a pill script.
There is almost no human interest in the person.
If you'd like feeling better as a person, then find people.
Relying only on our mental health system will keep you feeling low and unsteady.
If your life is a little more sheltered and you are in a group home setting or your basic needs are taken care of by someone or some organization, then similar advice is still valid.
Find and participate in whatever human settings which appeal to you and are available on a somewhat regular basis.
It's hard to accept the end of a marriage when it's not your choice; you feel powerless, abandoned and unwanted.
Your wife has the right to decide not to be in a marriage with you, and a therapist can help you accept and move through this change that has broken your heart and left you lost.
You don't indicate why you haven't seen your child, and you may want to consult with a lawyer about the laws in your area and how to gain access to your baby.
Therapists don't intervene in these ways.
The marriage may be ending, but your role as a loving father is only beginning.
You can focus on giving your child the gift of two parents who respect each other.
The ADHD and manic depressive episodes are terms other people told you that you have.
You don't have to accept these words to describe who you are.
A lot of mental health in our country is about telling people what's wrong with them and giving pills for these so called conditions, instead of helping a person know more about themselves in order to make good decisions.
You can be happy because nothing from the outside, such as the names people have used to tell you who you are, can interfere with your own wish to be happy.
Others can slow you down because of the self-doubt and hurt feelings.
No one can take happiness from you, only they can make it harder to find and hold onto.
Anger management only works temporarily because it is a surface approach.
Think of the reason you are angry.
This will be better to know so you will be able to address it.
Then you will not have anger to manage.
Congratulations on leaving your marriage!It is ok and natural to feel sadness, loss, uncertainty in direction, hurt, resulting from ending the marriage.
Possibly what you consider "pity" is a combination of these feelings.
Be kind and caring toward who you are since you just put yourself through a major separation and need time to clear out the old emotions that connected you to your ex.
There is very, very little chance of him helping you since he lacks compassion and empathy.
More likely any help he gave would be in order to manipulate you.
Maybe for now your server job is ok do you have more time to concentrate on taking care of your emotions.
You were a manager once, you can be a manager again when you feel ready for doing so.
Good luck!
Are you a teen.
This is a really hard problem for more teens (and adults) than let on.
When I was about 15, I remember asking my parent's friend, Herman, whether life gets any easier when you get older.
He said the problems are actually harder, but you gain the ability to deal with them better.
I've been an adult a long time now, and that is so true.
If you need someone to talk to, consider a teacher or a school guidance counselor or someone you respect, maybe in church.
In general, the answer is no.
Depression can not not generally cause PTSD.
Your question does make a lot of sense, though.
Depression is a common symptom of PTSD.
A counselor in your area should be able to help you what's going on - either feelings of depression, PTSD, or both.
Did you take the medication the way the psychiatrist prescribed it.
Did you follow up with her/him to report how it was going.
Different medications work differently with different people.
It's not always the first one that helps.
And some of the medications take some time to have an effect.
Give the doctor the chance to help you.
I suggest you find a certified CBT therapist to help you examine your thinking.
Probably.
Frequently when working with clients, I utilize the A-B-C model developed by Albert Ellis, the founder of Rational Emotive Behavior Theory.
The theory basically states that you can not control an event but you can control your reaction to the emotions associated with said event.
For instance here is an example:A (Action or Event): You need to talk to someone and that person is not calling you back.
B (Behavior or Response): You begin to tell yourself that this person is too busy for me or I am not important to this person.
C (Consequence): You feel depressed.
If you look at the model, B has a direct effect on C.
The thought is if you change your reaction to A, then C will have a better consequence, such as:A: stays the same.
B (this is what you change): This person must be busy, they will call me back when they get a chance or I can call someone else to lean on for support until this person is available.
C: Decreased feelings of depression & overall functioning improves.
This is just an example but if you actively work to replace the negative thought patterns that effect your behavior, studies show that your overall outlook and mood will improve.
If this model resonates with you, I recommend "Feeling better, getting better, staying better" by Alber Ellis.
In addition, looking for support groups in your area are a great source of support when you are feeling abandoned or alone.
I'm sorry to hear that you are feeling as if you're in a slump.
First of all, nothing is wrong with you.
Many people report similar symptoms.
Have you ever talked with a physician regarding your symptoms.
Two extreme emotions such as feeling extremely happy and then feeling extremely low for a length of time may indicate a mood disorder.
I think it would be best to talk with your doctor or a therapist to help pinpoint the issue causing them.
It's possible that it could just be certain stressors in your life that are causing the two extremities but you definitely want to rule out any mental health issues.
If it is in fact mental health related there are many medications or therapy choices that can help.
Thanks for reaching out.
I hope that you will feel back on track soon!
The best way to handle depression and anxiety is with a combination of appropriate medication given to you by a medical doctor, and therapy to help you understand the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that are causing the depression and anxiety in the first place and then to replace these with more positive thoughts and behaviors.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is a technique that has been proven helpful for depression and anxiety.
This takes a therapist trained in CBT.
There are some things in life that you cannot change and must learn to accept.
A lot of people spend time trying to change things that they have no control over.
This may be the behavior of someone else in your life or it could be a situation that you cannot change, such as the recent death of a loved one, a lost relationship, or an accident or illness which has left you handicapped.
In cases like this, what can change is your attitude and thoughts about the situation that you now find yourself in.
One thing that is inevitable about life is that stuff happens and it is not always pleasant.
Some people take these unpleasant occurrences very hard and it throws them into a deep depression.
Other people seem to be able to handle life's ups and downs and bounce back.
They do this with having positive coping skills in their life.
Learning new coping skills is something your therapist can help you with.
A lot of people are so focused on trying to change the things in their life that they cannot change and are ignoring the things that they can change.
There are things that you can do.
Here is a quote for you to consider.
You are getting almost everything that you are getting based on the choices that you have made.
You will continue to get the same thing out of life until you make some changes.
‚ Another quote I like is You will find a way or you will find an excuse.
‚ Don't ever say that you have no choice.
Everyone has a choice.
You might not particularly like any of the choices that you are facing, but you do have choices.
Not happy in a relationship.
You can leave it.
Hate your job.
Get a new one.
If it matters to you, you will find a way.
Don't sit there complaining about everything but not doing anything different or better.
Take care of yourself.
Exercise is very important not only for your physical health, but for your mental health as well.
Eating right and exercising will help you feel better about yourself.
Also, find a meditation that works for you.
There are progressive muscle relaxation exercises, visual and mental meditations, and many many more.
Start making some positive changes in your life today.
You can do it!
First of all, if you're sick and in pain, have you seen your doctor.
If you have a chronic illness and pain, this can often lead to depression and is very common.
You've taken the first step to dealing with it.
You can talk to your doctor, even if your depression isn't related to your health.
He or she can either look at prescribing you an antidepressant or can refer you to a psychologist or psychiatrist.
If that's not really an option for you, there are also helplines (local or national) or support groups where people dealing with similar issues can talk to each other.
If you can't find any in your area (newspapers usually publish this information), there are online support groups as well.
Hi there.
Thank you reaching out for help.
It takes a lot of courage for someone that is being abused to reach out for help.
I want you to know that I am here to help you in any way that I can.
First and foremost, you did not mention whether or not you had children yourself by this man.
I'm going to assume there are.
So, the most important thing right at this moment is asking yourself, if you and your children are safe.
Is the boyfriend currently living in the home or is he coming and going.
If he is coming and going or currently living in the home, my suggestion for you is to pack a bag for you and your children and go somewhere safe (, for example, family members home, friend or a shelter temporarily).
I cannot stress this enough.
Although, some people tend to minimize their abusers behavior (, for example, they only do it when they are drinking, they only do it when they are mad), it's those individuals that find themselves or their children in a serious situation.
So, you can never take abuse (physical or mental) lightly because you never know what is going through that persons mind at that particular time.
It's always better to be safe than sorry.
Secondly, it will not be safe, helpful or productive to attempt to talk to the abuser about your relationship.
Abusers often times try and manipulate you into staying by apologizing or attempting to justify their behaviors.
This is the time you would want to go see a magistrate in order to get a protective order for you and your children.
It's unfortunate that your significant other was involved with another women causing pregnancy; however, that is no longer your concern.
Your concern at this point is keeping yourself and your children safe.
I would also suggest counseling for you and your children in order to work through these issues.
I hope this was helpful and please stay safe and take care of yourself.
I agree, it is awkward when people make jokes about subjects which may not be funny at all.
And, if a person only jokes, then after laughing and realizing the person has nothing of themselves to offer, this can also be quite tedious.
Realize that you are more aware of human interaction having many levels of expression.
You could start avoiding people who irritate you by the way they behave.
In order for your friend to forgive you she'd need to trust you understand the damage you introduced into her relationship with her friend.
Its possible if you offer your friend expressions of your empathy toward her over an extended time, possibly she'll forgive you.
You're certainly learning relationship lessons on how to treat people and the effect of betraying another person, which will last forever.
Maybe this was meant to be the outcome.
This takes time.
I don't know how long it has been, but perhaps if your friend is willing to discuss other things with you for a little while, you could discuss this at some point in the future.
Hopefully the true intentions will become apparent (in the idea that it was a prank).
Also, I encourage you to look at how this is affecting you and how you feel about yourself as well.
If it was meant to be a joke and it did not work, that is not entirely your fault.
I wonder how you could forgive yourself for what happened?
Are you able to seek what you meant to do compared to what actually happened?
Do you notice that not everything that has happened here is in your control?
Do you recognize that even though you would like things to be better, if your friend is not ready or willing, you are trying to do your part to make it right?
Maybe everyone who is/was involved in this can talk together all at the same time to set straight what is truth and what was misunderstood.
I wonder if you can think of your own positive attributes (for example: honesty, compassion, trustworthiness, friendship, good listener, caring) and look at what truly exists within you rather than just one your friend is able to see right now.
This can be really difficult for multiple reasons, not the least of which is that it involves more than just you, so it's important to focus on the idea that you can ask these other people who were involved to discuss it, but that is ultimately up to them.
Best wishes for looking at the positive parts of yourself and your friendships.
You may intuitively be sensing what many professionals in the social sciences and psychology have already understood.
Just Google "psychopaths and leadership" and many articles come up about boardroom politics and that psychopaths are very successful in these roles.
Theoretically, is it terrible that corporate leadership qualities match those of psychopaths?
Well, yes.
And, I consider your question as a mark of your sensitive awareness toward other people.
Being able to recognize social dynamics, is a strength that you have.
Psychopaths know how to be charming and to twist words so that others believe that their own interest is the same as the psychopath's.
I agree with you about not being able to change people's minds who are attached to this person's interactions.
The only way you can introduce a change in the relationship system of a psychopath is that if you are aware of illegal or law breaking activity, and you have evidence of this, that you contact relevant authorities.
No one is allowed to break laws, including psychopaths.
It doesn't really matter what the actual diagnosis is, and whether or not he is an actual psychopath, he has manipulated and lied to you, and that is enough reason for you to stay far away from him.
Men (and women) with these characteristics can become violent.
They can also make your life difficult by creating financial or legal trouble for you.
Again, forget about him, and contact the police if you think he is in a position to harm others.
I understand the feeling of not being liked due to not having any responses on the sites you list.
More than likely the non-response has less to do with liking you than w liking the way you write your messages.
Have you tried asking a question in your posts?
This would be one way to invite people to answer your post.
When you write, imagine yourself as the reader of the post.
If you think about the wording of a question which would motivate you to respond, then this formula will very likely be the same for many others who read your post.
Good luck!
Sorry to hear your friends aren't responding to you.
If these friends are in-person as well as online, perhaps going to them in person and asking talking to them about your concern.
Perhaps it's the way you send messages or the way they are receiving them.
if they say no, then a simple request to respond to your messages.
Measure the result and notice if there are even small differences.
Also understand, why this is so important to you.
Ask yourself, why it's so important for you to receive these messages from friends.
What does it mean when they don't respond.
I'm sorry that you are having a difficult time.
I wonder about how your friendships are in person.
If you get along well with people and have effective conversations with them face-to-face, there could be some kind of technology-related problem.
Have you tried gently talking to people about how you send a message and they didn't answer?
If you can phrase it in such a way that they recognize that you are asking for information and not blaming them for not answering you, that could be effective.
I'd also encourage you to consider how much this is bothering you.
If it is causing a significant amount of anxiety (say, more than 5/10 if 10 is really anxious), I would suggest talking with a local therapist.
In the meantime, consider talking about this with someone you trust to whom you can get more details to get a more specific answer.
Sorry to hear of your problem situation.
Feeling intimidated by another person is very unsettling.
Stop having contact with the person.
Bullies only interact with others either by intimidating someone or by themselves feeling intimidated by someone.
Bullies do not have the same dynamics as everyone else.
No one can convince or persuade or talk a bully out of their behavior.
The best protection for yourself, assuming you are not being physically threatened by the person, is to close contact with them.
This does not take away any of the disappointment or sadness of wishing for a better relationship with the person.
Until the bully wants to interact differently with others, only harm can result from contact with them.
Step one is to stop the bleeding, then to assess and learn to live with not having the person in your life.
One thing I would ask is "why are you still hanging with those {friends}?
A relationship needs to be nurtured by both parties, it is a dynamic fluctuation between two people.
I would ask you to question why you continue to remain together as friends, I always believed that a relationship should emit positivity towards all parties involved, if your in a relationship that is one-sided, it is inevitable that it will start to de-compensate.
Never travel with the circus, never travel with fools, everything in life should have some positive payout, will things at times be negative, of course they will, but in order to keep something or someone in your life there should be more positivity than negativity.
Interpersonal relationship (either positive or negatives) need to or more persons who give and receive: attention, dedication, time and communication.
But what makes friendships special is that they last trough time, at least with those who we call our true friends, those who know us well and whom we have a special connection and those from whom we disconnect at times, without fear of losing them.
Consider what is that you are going trough yourself and with your relationship, talk to your friend about your concern; let him (her) know that you would like to spend more time together.
Plan an activity that you both enjoy or try to discover a new hobby.
If your friend is not enthusiastic or engaged, give him (her) some time and focus your energy spending time with other friends or enjoying activities in solitude.
After a waiting period, call again to let your friend know how you are and that you are still a friend.
If you continue feeling rejected, analyze why you value this relationship so much and consider if it's worth to maintain it.
It sounds like you would like to let other people get close to you and at the same time you are finding yourself compelled to keep people at a distance.
Often times, when we have difficulty trusting others, it is because we have specific fears about what would happen if we get close or let our guard down.
Such fears may be rooted in past experiences in relationships in which we were hurt and or disappointed.
In working with a therapist, you can gain insight into what is underneath your compulsion to put walls around yourself and develop ways to form authentic, lasting, satisfying relationships with others.
How did you find out that the girls aren't happy with their dresses?
Did you hear this directly from one of them or is this third hand information that someone else told you about one of the girls in your party?
The answer matters because gossiping instead of directly telling you about a problem, is a problem in itself.
I suggest a conversation with the entire group of girls in which you tell them how you actually are feeling about their opinions about the dresses.
One topic you may consider bringing up is what everyone expects to get out of the party.
Are they coming because they like one another and wearing a dress in which the girl is happy, is only one way of having fun together?
I hope you'll have a fun party!
"Staying present is an attitude most of us aspire to, and most of us have to work at it certainly at first.
I'm here to tell you that living in the now or being mindful is a skill anyone can learn.
Unfortunately, the only way to do it is to do it.
What a paradox!
But there are plenty of other skills that we are not born with: walking on stilts, riding a bike, swimming, and driving a car are good examples.
You can't learn them by reading about them.
Having said that, I can recommend two books on the subject: Eckhart Tolle's The Power of Now and David Richo's When the Past is Present.
Richo asks that we don't beat ourselves up about dwelling on past events.
This is nature's way of reminding us that we have unfinished business.
But while we are attended to the wounds and confusion that litter our earlier lives, we can prepare to inhabit the expanded present that awaits us.
He offers three helpful steps to making any important life change: Step One: Hold in awareness the behavior, belief, attitude, or characteristic you want to change in yourself and how you want to be different.
Awareness is the opposite of distraction and stuffing.
Step Two: Live as if you have already made the change.
(This is hard and takes courage, but you can do it.
Ride that bike even if for a foot or two)Step Three: Be persistent.
Just as two-year-olds are able to walk confidently after hundreds of hours of practice, you'll be able to stay in the here and now as long as you want after trying and failing many, many times.
Would you describe yourself as sensitive to your surroundings and emotions?
If yes, this may explain why letting go of past problems, is itself a problem.
The dynamic of living one day at a time and letting go of past problems, is more imaginary and wishful than real.
It is a popular notion of TV, FB, and media.
Doing the letting go, has nothing to do with what is actually possible to do.
Problems are not "let go", they are resolved somehow.
Living one day at a time isn't possible for anyone who has consciousness.
No one can really disconnect from reality every day on which they wake up.
Instead of trying to do the impossible which is promoted online and in media, allow yourself time to recognize what went into creating a problem in your life, in the first place.
Understanding problems leads to peacefulness and resolution.
Then you will have more freedom to make new relationships.
Also, be patient with this process and yourself.
If you have deep attachment to painful situations in your life, then possibly now is your time for understanding what went wrong.
This is a process which cannot be rushed if it is to be done well.
If it is done thoroughly, then you very naturally will bring new relationships into your life.
And life will no longer feel so painful that you can only manage "one day at a time" without hurting.
You won't need to forget what happened yesterday.
Research is telling us more and more that one of the most important keys to happiness is having healthy relationships.
If we feel successful in that area, it can give us the confidence and hope to tackle anything life throws at us.
There are personal barriers we all have to having healthy relationships; it's our "stuff", our "baggage".
You hint that people may have hurt you in the past.
Maybe fear says "stay away, hold onto resentment or you will be hurt again!
Resentment, or simply focusing on the past is certainly a barrier to improving any relationship.
Learning to forgive ourselves and others is so important.
And remember, forgiveness isn't about saying something was okay; it only means "It happened, I can't change that, and I don't want to carry it (anger, hurt, resentment) around anymore, so I let it go.
Or, sometimes fear tells us that people won't accept us; this keeps us isolated for sure!
But really, all fear wants is power over us.
Fear is a trickster!
It tells us that if we let go of the past, we will be rejected or hurt.
It says "I'm trying to protect you, but what it REALLY wants is to paralyze and isolate us all so it can feel powerful.
Once you pull the sheeps clothing off of fear, you can see that it doesn't help you at all!
Once you see where your personal barriers are, and you start to refute those thoughts in your mind, you can begin to build new ideas about yourself and other people that are based on compassion instead of fear,Everyone deserves forgiveness and compassion.
No one deserves to be judged by their worst moments.
If I look in the rearview mirror, I can't move forward.
We are all beautifully imperfect.
I can't change the past, but I have the power to make the future good.
I wish you the best on your journey!
Take one day at a time!
Each day do things that make you happy, moves to a positive place, focusing on the future, give you a sense of fulfillment and accomplishment.
Journal at the end of the day of how well you did that day in focusing on these things.
Each day should be a step better than the previous day.
You will have days that you didn't do as well,.
that is human and OK.
Just get back on track the next day,.
At the end of the week, review how well you did and give your self a grade.
If did well, you deserve ice cream If not so good, OK, tell yourself next week "got to focus one day at a time".
You can do it.
It takes practice but will get better each day, I wish you happy days and happy future.
Remember, the past no longer exists and the future is just an illusion as we don't know what will happen tomorrow, so take the present as your guide.
That is all we can do, so keep saying this to yourself and try to help someone each day.
The happiness is helping others to feel a bit better.
Conflict is a tricky beast and shows up in everyone of our relationships.
What I'm reading is that you find yourself in a loop of seeking validation of your thoughts and feelings from your friends rather than validating yourself.
Am I right?
If you aren't validating yourself, no one else will be able to either.
Try finding a small nugget of truth in the feedback your friends give you, this will help to lower your defenses and help your friends hear what you are really sharing.
And then if you are still feeling vulnerable, share that too.
It sounds like your confused as to why your friends would be calling you a hypocrite when they act in the same manner, correct?
Communication is key to any relationship.
I would recommend speaking with your friends face-to-face to address why they feel your behavior is concerning.
In-person contact is the best method of sorting out differences considering texts, emails or any written response can be misconstrued.
Be upfront with them and let them know that being accused of hypocrisy is hurtful and you feel it is unfounded.
If after speaking with them you feel that they have valid reasons for the way they are feeling, maybe you can consider modifying your behavior accordingly.
Especially if this friendship is valuable to you.
However, make sure they are aware that there is a respectful way to address these issues and name calling is not one of them.
On the other hand, if you feel that their reasons are indeed unfounded, it may be best to distance yourself from the relationship.
Not all friendships are healthy ones.
And it is important that you surround yourself with people who are an asset to your self esteem as opposed to those that hinder it.
I hope you are able to get this matter sorted.
Best of luck!
That's a very difficult situation that you are in.
But you are not alone.
I have several school-aged clients who find little to no assistance from their teachers at their schools regarding bullying.
There are a few options that are available to you to help deal with being bullied at school.
One option that I would suggest is for you to talk to your support network.
Friends and family can sometimes be good sources of support.
Another option would be to speak with us about your counselor, if you have one.
And third, there are some excellent online sources of support regarding the bullying at school.
Teachers don't do anything about it due to liability of the school (school and faculty would get sued and have claims made against them); wouldn't expect much out of them; Couple things:1) Realize that bullies accuse others of the very crimes they are doing themselves;2) Bullies aren't actually all that weak as others have said, but do not stand up against constant pressure of truth-telling;3) Research yourself, or pay someone, to locate the bully's mother and father, and let them know what you have experienced (by way of text, phone, letter);4) Access your own mother and father and tell them what you have experienced, and see if they will help;Long term, society must return to a more masculine way of being such that these sorts of troubles are dealt with at the home.
Learn to be man/woman, and watch the magic happen.
To be bullied is very painful.
I'm glad you know the bullies are doing the wrong thing and whatever they are telling you is pure meanness.
Depending on how independent you feel, why not tell either your classroom teacher or schedule an appointment with the vice principal?
Bullying other students is taken very seriously in some states and schools are expected to address the bullying until the victimized student feels safe.
If you hesitate to do this on your own, then would you ask either of your parents or even a friend of yours who is also in the school, to report the problem?
In case you are afraid the bullies will retaliate for reporting them, then tell this to whatever school authority you decide to ask for help.
You're entitled to be protected by your school.
It doesn't sound like he hates you, just misses mom and dad in the mornings.
You could validate his feelings by saying something like "I know you want to see mom and dad right now, but they are working" and then give him a couple options of things that may take his mind off of it.
This could be choosing what he has for breakfast or playing a game of his choice.
If possible, it may also be helpful if you could create a routine in which he stops by mom and dad to say good morning.
If this is routine, he will come to understand that he will be able to see mom and dad for a minute and not become anxious about seeing them.
Be lighthearted, this toddler may not be a morning person!
He is most likely wanting to connect with either parent when he arises in the morning.
It could be helpful to talk with his parents and establish a routine that he would be comfortable with.
It is very likely the child is upset by the fact that the parents have left, more than that he hates you in particular.
The fact that by afternoon he is happy with you shows more likelihood that he reacts to the parents departure more than who you are.
You should be able to get a replacement ID card either from the Personnel Office on your local base (the actual name of this office will vary depending on which branch of the military it is).
You may also be required to go to the Military Police or Security office on base to report the loss of your old ID card.
Do you have any other form of identification?
The first place to stop would be the Visitor's Center or whichever department issues passes.
They are located outside of the gate so you do not need a military ID to enter.
If you have another form of identification it's possible that they can give you a pass in order to go and obtain a new military ID.
If you do not, you could always ask someone else to sponsor you on (a friend, coworker) that have military access.
Depending on the threat level, they may not need your ID as long as you are with someone that has access.
Keep in mind that currently (6/11/15) all military bases are on Bravo which unfortunately means you will need your own ID.
Finally, if all else fails, call your doctor and explain your situation.
I'm sure they would be more than willing to discuss your options.
Also, it's important to make sure that you report your wallet being stolen if you haven't already.
Security Forces on base can help you with this and to ensure your ID doesn't get into the wrong hands.
Good luck!
As a prior military spouse myself I can happily report that you have several options in this case.
First, you can go to the visitors center and let them know what has happened to get a temporary pass for a new id.
Also, you can call the squadron commander or other official from your husband's unit to get them to tell you how to proceed.
You can also contact the military personnel flight for more information The best thing is to get a new id as soon as you can.
There should be no problems because it was stolen and you might need to report it to the military police or security forces on base.
In a way, self-harm can present somewhat like an addiction.
According to new research within the field of neuroscience there is a valid explanation for this.
When a person cuts or uses other forms of self harm, the body produces endorphins to help make a person feel better.
If a person was dealing with depression or high anxiety, that might be misinterpreted by the brain as a way to help oneself feel better and a new neural network or map might form (addiction) that would utilize this new behavior.
Another way to look at it would be thru a behavioral lens, a positive reward for a behavior, even though the behavior has other long term negative consequences.
Consider working with someone who can both have you work on and address those items that trigger your behavior and the root causes, in this case sadness or depression, and second find someone who can help give you alternatives that take into account the neurological requirement by replacing the behavior with another behavior (such as snapping a rubber band on the wrist) and working to extinguish the unwanted behavior.
Someone who is trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy and/or Interpersonal Neurobiology would most likely have the skills and means available to address this with you.
Self-harm has a way of becoming a go-to method of coping.
When we get stuck using self-harm as a way to deal and manage emotions, when something serious happens it totally makes sense that that will be one the first things to go through the mind.
It is its own kind of addiction.
There is a therapy, DBT or, Dialectical Behavior Therapy, which focusing on giving you new tools to get through hard times, understand and manage your emotions, to stay present and to deal with relationships.
This one of the most effective interventions there is for self-harm.
If you are interested in DBT, reach a local therapist in your area and ask if they do DBT or can recommend you to a DBT program.
This can help immensely.
Self-harm recovery is totally possible, but it is definitely hard work!
Hello, and thank you for your question.
This is a very serious time.
I don't mean to frighten you, but you are right to be concerned.
The time right after people leave the hospital after receiving psychiatric services is a time of high risk for suicide.
It is very important, after hospitalization,to getfollow-up care with a professional as soon as possible.
If your husband has an established therapist, this is the time to call.
It is also a good time to alert your support system of friends, family, clergy or others to let them know he is still struggling.
This is good support for him AND you.
It is important to think about means and opportunity to make another attempt.
Means really do matter.
So, if you have a firearm in the home, it is really important to remove it.
You can't remove all things that a person may hurt themselves with, but some things are more lethal than others.
Firearms are very lethal.
I am not sure what means he used last time, but try to reduce the opportunity for him to access it again.
This is where your support system can help out.
People can take turns hanging out with him until you are sure the crisis is over.
If you believe that an attempt is going to occur, talk to your husband about going back to the hospital.
If he refuses, you will want to find out what your options are to have him go even if he doesn't want to.
I know the thought of that really hurts, but it can save his life.
Calling 9-1-1 is always a good option if you are not sure.
Usually a suicide crisis, meaning they want to harm themselves right now, lasts a few minutes, hours or days.
Sometimes when you get them through the crisis stage, they no longer want to commit suicide.
But, as you are indicating, that feeling of wanting to commit suicide can come back again.
So, it is always good to have a plan.
They can help you create a specific safety plan.
I do hope things work out alright.
This is actually more common then we often realize, and actually understandable, as he has gone through a trauma, an unresolved existential crisis.
He was taken care of by others and now is again left alone with his own internal, and rather horrific inner struggle.
I have learned how trapped suicidal people are in their own isolation, also called a "mysterious isolation," a form of self protection which cuts the off from their Self, or spirit.
And unless they address this message from their soul, accompany a guide on a journey to discover their own missing information, that is to recognize how their own uncomforted emotionalpain has resulted in a coping stategy which has effectively cut themselves off from their own beauty, their Self, and their ability to receive love from themselves and others.
Their attempt to kill themselves is a cry from their soul or spirit that they cannot live the life they are living any longer.
They take this literally and try to end their life, when in fact what their soul or spirit is saying is they need to begin to live the life they came here to live.
I'm thankful to read your husband found care and that his suicide attempt wasn't successful.
While he was hospitalized, and prior to his release, your husband would've been provided in writing a self-care action plan.
This typically includes things like committing to a contract 'not to harm' and what to do if he felt overwhelmed by his anger, depression, and hopelessness ( call 911, call therapist, go to nearest hospital emergency department).
Additionally, his protocol would've provided instructions for his taking medication(s) as directed, having a follow-up appointment(s) with his psychiatrist/psychologist/clinical social worker, and participating in some form of small group support.
If your husband's struggling as you describe, and you are feeling overwhelmed or frightened for his (your) safety, I'd encourage you to seek immediate assistance.
This must be so difficult for both of you.
Watching someone you love suffer so profoundly can bring up lots of difficult feelings.
Without knowing what you are already doing, I have a few thoughts to share with you.
First and foremost, know that you cannot fix this for him, and get support for yourself.
As much as you are able, make space in your relationship for him to talk about what he is experiencing.
He might not want to talk, and that is ok.
If he wants to talk, try to listen without judgement and without trying to talk him out of his feelings.
Focus on validating his feelings and just sitting with him in his pain.
Let him know how you feel,that you love him, that you care, that you are concerned, that this is scary for you too, that you are here.
I hope that this is helpful.
I've written a series of blog posts about coping with distress.
The techniques I've written about there may be supportive for you and your husband.
Sending warm wishes your way.
I appreciate that you are concerned about your husband's emotions and want to support him as best you can right now.
I imagine that you must be going through your own difficult time too.
You've had a complicated shock and trauma in your life and in your marriage; it's normal for both of your emotions to move from hope to despair to fear, anger, gratitude, there is no wrong way to feel and there is no particular pattern your emotions or his will follow.
Try not to assume what he is feeling but ask him instead.
How are you doing today?
is something that can be asked over and over again and your love and compassion for him will come through.
If he has a hard time talking, you can share your observations.
I notice you're more withdrawn.
This worries me.
Certainly it will help you if you know what he's thinking and feeling because he hid his intentions to hurt himself.
It's normal that you want to know.
If there is depression and hopelessness, this likely was part of what led to his initial despair.
There is help out there.
Depression is treatable, and seeking that treatment is important right now at this vulnerable time.
This is the kind of complex situation that can be assisted by a therapist who is qualified to help you both understand and manage your emotions.
Whether your husband seeks help or not, I hope that you do.
A failed suicide attempt is commonly thought of as a cry for help, however it can also be a serious attempt to find a permanent solution to depression, hopelessness or other feelings a person feels are unbearable.
It's wonderful that you want to support your husband, but If your husband is feeling depressed and hopeless, you can best help him by getting him to a mental health professional.
Feelings of hopelessness and depression, and previous attempts at suicide are all risk factors for future suicide attempts.
With a mental health professional, or in the emergency room of a hospital, your husband should be evaluated for suicidal thoughts, intent and plan, and if he is a danger to himself he should probably be hospitalized again until he is stable.
Without knowing the particulars, your husband may suffer from Major Depressive Disorder or some other illness on the depressive spectrum.
In that case medication could help him immensely, at which point you can offer your support and encouragement him to practice gentle self-care.
And do not forget to practice it for yourself.
Remember: a suicide attempt not only affects the person, but it is an immense stressor for his or her loved ones as well.
As they say, put your oxygen mask on first.
Then you will be better able to provide your husband with calm and loving care and attention.
Kayla Schwartz, LMSW[emailprotected].
The fact that you're reaching out for help here is really helpful.
The first thing I would suggest is that you consider seeing a local mental health professional yourself to be able to talk about the details, how this is affecting you, and how you can hold onto you are while also being supportive to you husband.
From the way that you describe this, I wonder what has changed since coming home from the hospital.
Perhaps you can have a conversation with your husband this and mention that you are asking him questions to learn more about his experience and you can discuss how you notice that things were going much better when he came home from the hospital, and now things are not as good.
Perhaps he can tell you about what is different so that you may know him would be most helpful to him.
I also hope that you husband is still continuing with his own treatment.
There may also be a local peer support telephone number for the county that you live in that they be able to help you determine whether your husband needs more immediate treatment if he is feeling hopeless again.
There are national crisis telephone numbers listed below as well.
Since as husband and wife your lives are closely joined, how your husband feels greatly influences the way you feel.
Give yourself some time to concentrate on how you've been affected by your husband's suicide attempt.
Even if you decide against immediately telling him how you're feeling, knowing this about yourself will guide how and the topics you bring up with him.
Is your husband talking easily with you?
Do you have some ideas as to what is creating his feeling of hopelessness?
The ideal approach would be if the two of you are able to discuss what bothers him and what bothers you.
Depending on how far away you each are from such a position, you may benefit from speaking with a licensed professional therapist who can guide you and or you and your husband on opening up for discussion what feels stressful enough to merit taking one's own life.
It seems like you are very receptive of your husband's emotions and want to support him trough this time.
But it is also important of being aware of your emotions.
How are you feeling after the suicide attempt?
It is common to experience negative feelings while you try to make sense of the incident.
Feelings like anger, shame, guilt and fear are frequent; while, wanting to avoid, minimize and become distant from the person are parts of the defense mechanism to attempt a quick resolution.
Once you understand and overcome those feelings you may be in a better position to help your husband; who may be experiencing some negative feelings as well.
First, it is important to have a safety plan in place, which includes removing harming objects from the home, knowing who to call if there's a new attempt (either 9-1-1, or nearby treatment center), have a professional expert who monitors you and your husband's progress, either a Counselor or mental health provider could help you manage negative feelings and identify ways to handle triggering situations.
Once the safety plan is in place, make him feel supported and not judged, saying open ended statements, like: I am glad that you are here, please let me know what I can do to help you through this process.
Making small changes toward a healthier living may help as well.
Exercising, eating healthier and practicing new leisure activities may be good ways to start.
Also, explore your spirituality and your husbands, looking for ways to encourage each other by joining a support group or finding people who share your spiritual beliefs.
Any diagnosis is limited in its usefulness.
Knowing the name of some typical ways you may feel, think and behave, doesn't help you or anyone to understand why the person is the way they are and how to change any of these characteristics.
Both self-diagnosing and being diagnosed are equally unhelpful to know why you are the way you are and what to do about it.
Consider yourself a person who wants to find a better way to be who you are, and this will get you further with better results than to read a list of descriptions which all are very indicting and negative sounding.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
Self-diagnosing is something that we all do about one health issue or another.
Taking a guess about what may or may not be happening to us is completely normal, however the actual clinical diagnoses of a mental health disorder requires a licensed mental health professional.
Here are a few reasons for this:
1. Making a clinical diagnosis often requires other things besides matching up the symptoms of a disorder.
To come to a diagnoses for any of the things you mentioned, a counselor would consult theDSM, but they may also use some type of screening tool, assessment or scale.
Many disorders have similarities and it requires someone with training to tease out the differences in the symptoms.
2. Our judgement is sometimes off when it comes to assessing ourselves.
We really can't be objective.
Something as serious as determining a diagnosis really needs to be done by someone who has that objectivity.
In addition, once you know your diagnosis, treating it usually requires help from a professional.
3. Sometimes the symptoms of a mental health disorder makes self-diagnoses impossible, in and of itself.
For example, someone could be having hallucinations or delusions and not realize it.
That would clearly make it impossible for them to diagnose themselves.
There are many examples where something like this could happen with different mental health disorders.
There are other reasons, but these are three important ones.
Now, does this mean that you are wrong about your diagnosis?
Maybe not.
You may be correct.
But it is important to get this confirmed by a professional mental health clinician.
If a disorder is then found, you can begin to talk about treatment.
Hope this was helpful.
Sounds like signs of someone who is depressed.
Since the person in question is your friend, offer your friendship to listen to any situations or feelings she has about herself and the way her life is going.
Depressed people are often lonely people and feel as though no one around them cares or notices them.
Your willingness to be available to her may lift her spirits.
Feeling loved goes a long way to dissolving depressed feelings.
Also, if in the beginning when you offer to talk, there is a high chance she'll be defensive and turn down your offer.
Try again on another day and then another day.
When people feel depressed they usually shut down.
So you may need a few or several tries before your friend accepts your offer to show her you care about how she is doing.
Also, watch for signs within yourself that your friends' depression is not sinking your emotions.
Depressed people are draining to be around because they often see and talk about only the negatives and drawbacks of situations.
What matters most is how you feel and what you're doing, with whom you're interacting, whether you feel you've got enough interaction to be happy.
Whether or not a clinician would decide to identify you as "depressed" matters much less than how you actually are feeling, if you have some ideas as to what might improve your sense of being, and how to go about reaching your goals.
If therapy during your childhood made you feel better and you feel you may be depressed, then trying therapy at this point in your life, makes sense.
The worst that can happen is you find you feel better than you first understood.
The best that can happen is you find a caring therapist who helps you find faith in yourself again.
Sometimes it's helps to have a name for a problem - it can make you feel less alone as in, "oh there's a name for this and other people have this experience too.
On the other hand naming the problem can also make it stick around longer as in "now I have a special problem that has a special name, and that's an important part of who I am.
Bottom line, whether it's a disorder or not, you would like life to be easier and not have to be pulled so much by other people's energy and feelings.
You might want to try imagining that you have a volume dial on your empathy (just like the volume dial or button on the tv) that you can gently turn down to the point where you still feel what's going on but it's not so "loud".
You can also try imagining pulling your own energy back as if you were drawing your energy back home to the center of your own body and being, letting go of the other people or characters that pulled your energy out so far.
This is a way create better boundaries and protect your own vulnerability.
Just like on an airplane where they tell you to put on your own oxygen mask first before helping anyone else, your empathy will most likely not really help others if you allow yourself to be depleted.
It sounds like this would be difficult at times, particularly if you feel misunderstood.
You may or may not know that we all have chemicals in our brain.
We also have different sections of our brain that become active when different things happen.
There is a part of our brain where a lot of our emotions originate that is also designed to protect us when we are going through things that have been physically or emotionally painful in the past, and when that part of the brain is sometimes overactive (perceiving threat when there is no actual threat at the time), sometimes anxiety can develop.
This doesn't necessarily mean that everyone has an anxiety disorder, but often if we are afraid of something that is not actually a legitimate concern (for example, most insects are not going to hurt me, but I still do not like them very much), we have anxiety about it.
The first thing I thought of when I read your question is that perhaps some part of your brain are overactive.
I did find an article that may be helpful to you, but I just want to caution you.
Not everything listed here applies to you.
Also, the article uses the term "brain anomalies".
This does not mean that there is something majorly wrong with your brain.
While I cannot tell you exactly what is happening, I'm asking you not to panic over the term and to just consider that perhaps some of the chemical reactions in your brain may be a little overactive, which may be able to be corrected with medication or something similar.
I can't tell for certain from what you posted whether or not this is what is happening, but I would recommend that you either talk to your primary care physician or a therapist or psychiatrist.
The world needs more people lately who have such a high degree of empathy which you describe in yourself!
If it feels a little burdensome, then look to balance what is too much with its opposite.
Since you're giving a lot of empathy, maybe you'd like receiving a lot of empathy.
In the situation you describe, when you start empathizing with others, real or cartoon, ask yourself whether you've felt empathy coming in your direction lately.
Often people give to others what they feel within themselves is missing.
The emotional brain reasons that if I give you my support, say, then at least I will feel half of what being supported is like.
Obviously the wish to receive more empathy cannot be fulfilled by you directly.
Empathy is delivered by someone who is willing to offer it.
Reflect on whether you are allowing those who are in your world, to know when you would like to receive their empathy.
Is it possible you keep your feelings to yourself and present as though you are able to handle a great deal more than you'd like to handle without anyone's kindness to support you?
Being open to others about your own inner thoughts and feelings is much more difficult than it sounds.
It sounds easy to just tell someone how you feel.
Sometimes the first step is the most difficult, of accessing how you feel.
Start with knowing the amount of empathy you'd like from others and what stops you from asking.
Also, about your diagnosis and the lack of studies and lists and formulas.
Each person is unique, the instructions and guidelines don't necessarily mean very much.
Often having a diagnosis makes a person feel weak, stigmatized, incompetent.
Forget the diagnosis and concentrate on what you need to do differently in order to feel better.
The answers are inside you, not inside a book or website.
This is a great question, and I am happy to have the opportunity to explain my approach.
When I am determining what type of personality a client has, I take my time and really absorb their lens/ point of view to themselves and others.
Determining a personality type takes some time getting to know the person, and building rapport.
After taking time to get to know them, and learning about their view they have of themselves and others, it is important to pick-up on more specific personality traits, which comprehensively contribute to a personality type.
Clinicians, including myself, often witness certain traits that are enduring and consistent, which indicate a type of personality.
For example, if a therapist is noticing that a client is exhibiting traits of organization, needing to be on time, planning, and perfectionism, these traits contribute to the "type A personality".
In addition to utilizing clinical judgment, clinicians often use personality assessments and follow the guidelines of the DSM-5/ ICD-10.
That's a great question.
There is such a wide range of ways to define "personality" that it is difficult to identify specific characteristics that are used to identify personality types.
That being said, some clinicians will use standardized tests (or assessments) to assess a client's type of personality.
While these tests can't tell us everything about a person, they can help us understand where we are within larger groups of different personality styles.
Some counselors will also use a diagnostic tool (like the DSM or ICD) to help a client understand a diagnosis that is related to a personality disorder.
Not very well.
So, you got the Jungians, and you got the Big Fiver's, and you got every manner of Ivory-Tower Orc in between, loosening the chains on their drooling, snarling Pet Theories,The real truth is, does it matter?
If it does, what does it matter?
If it's still of keen interest to you, I would presume that God designed most of his creatures with a "simpler set" of personality blueprints; not a complex set as theorized by man;Also realize that this level of reality is dualistic in nature; that means there is two of everything;So, imagine that whatever personalities you observe, and whatever words come to mind, also think of the opposite word, and you'll have a good sense of what actual personalities look like.
Then, share your findings; it'll be pretty neat to see what you come up with.
In my therapy practice I avoid characterizing people except for whether or not they are self-harming or a risk to harm other people.
As long as someone is sincerely trying to know more about themselves my work is help the person clarify who they really are and how their true self may be quite different than the life the person created for themselves, based on satisfying other people's standards.
In broad terms, personality disorders have stock characteristics which change very minimally over time instead of uniqueness which constantly flows and changes with circumstances over time.
I think we all go through a period of time where we think we aren't worth anything.
Sometimes these feelings are a result of low self esteem or because of shame.
The most important part of dealing with this thought is to separate feelings from reality.
"I don't feel worth anything, but I know what I do is important, I know who I am matters to others.
I know I am loved and cared about.
When you find yourself having these thoughts, stop, take a few deep breaths and try to reframe what you're thinking.
There is nothing wrong with you!
Sometimes we get intrusive thoughts that can be worrisome.
One things that can be helpful is to identify if there is a trigger to these thoughts - something in your life that makes these thoughts more common (an experience, a person, a place, a situation).
It will also be helpful to try and challenge this type of thinking by focusing on ways in which you are worthwhile as a person and have worth in your life.
CBT (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy) may be particularly helpful with this, also.
If you are open to seeing a therapist, find one that does CBT.
You can also find resources on CBT online.
It focuses on stopping and challenging unhelpful and harmful thinking patterns and replacing it with more helpful and healthy thinking patterns.
We all suffer from random thoughts from time to time.
Being able to manage your thoughts and choose what to think about yourself is something you would learn in counseling.
An effective treatment modality for this situation is cognitive behavioral therapy.
A lot of times the thoughts we have about ourselves are messages we have received from other people and later internalized them.
So in that sense, these thoughts are yours and belong to you, but you have received these messages from somebody else.
Even though we all receive messages like this at times, it pays to be careful not to ignore other messages we are receiving, such as a loved one appreciating your help or attention, a friend responding to encouragement, or a colleague showing interest in you.
I hope this helps.
Those kinds of thoughts can be quite difficult to handle, but if they are your own thoughts (and not voices you are hearing, which can be very different), they likely are not new to you.
From what I've learned from clients I work with, often these thoughts have been quite useful for them over the course of their lives, that through criticizing oneself, it is a way of motivating oneself.
However, in your case and in most of those clients, it has caught up to them and it's almost like they no longer need the motivation (that they can do just fine motivating themselves by themselves)I think it's important to see these thoughts as the voice of the "inner critic.
That inner critic was there for a long time, again, because "it" (I like to identify it as a thing inside of you) thought that you needed motivation in the form of criticism to stay on task with your life.
But now that that kind of sentiment is no longer needed by you, it might be time to have a different kind of relationship with it.
But it wants to be heard.
It doesn't want to silenced (Or "stopped" in your words) So instead of trying to ignore it, perhaps we can see all the ways you are worth something and internalize (take in, let those ways resonate with you, sit with them, think about them) so that the inner critic can see that it isn't quite correct in what it is saying.
In essence, you are instead sitting with the thoughts or worthiness instead of worthlessness.
If that is challenging, sometimes seeing someone who is objective, such as a therapist, can be helpful.
They can help you see the ways in which you are strong, have resilience, as well as any positive attributes that might be hard to see in the face of this loud inner critic.
And, above all, if you feel like this doesn't resonate for you, and that the voices might actually be voices, an evaluation should be sought to further tease out what sorts of symptoms you are experiencing.
We have thousands of thoughts a day.
Some thoughts we choose to think, and some thoughts are random as you describe.
We can't control the first random thought but as soon as we become aware of it we can make a conscious choice to change the thought.
Positive affirmations are messages we intentionally read to or tell ourselves to help us counteract negative thoughts.
If you find yourself under stress on some days more than others you may notice an increase of these negative thoughts about yourself.
To help you neutralize your negative thoughts and make it more natural to randomly think positive thoughts about yourself you might find it helpful to work with a therapist who specializes in cognitive behavioral therapy.
This professional can help you build insight into your errors in thinking, help you develop a stress management plan, and provide you with additional tools to boost your self-esteem.
Many people have thoughts like those you describe, and often it feels like someone else is saying it because they are things that may have been said to you when you were very young.
When young children hear negative things about themselves they tend to internalize these negative ideas and to form negative core beliefs.
The good news is we can learn to stop these thoughts and to replace them with healthier thoughts.
The first step is to catch yourself when you are thinking these thoughts, and to stay "stop!
; then replace it with another thought.
So for instance, maybe you fail a test or get rejected by a romantic interest.
You catch yourself saying "you aren't worth anything".
Stop this thought, and replace it with "You didn't do as well on that test as you would have liked.
Let's figure out how you can do better next time.
Or "she may not want to go out with you, but someone else will".
So the idea is to develop a voice of a "friend", who can tell you the kind of things you would say to your own best friend.
You might also pick up the book, Feeling Good, by David Burns.
He gives many tips for how to change Negative Self Talk.
Talking to a licensed profession who can discuss this in greater depth can be best.
As a general information, in short, I can say that our thoughts are greatly influenced by our early life experiences.
Our thoughts are processed through schemes, these are mental images or templates by which we make meaning of the world around us.
While our upbringing has a great influence on the way we see and interact with the world around us as adults, However, we are not condemned to abide by them for life, in psychotherapy, you learn to change negative schemas with positive ones.
Yeah, if you had less than optimal childhood you would have some sort of negative schemas that unconsciously lead to self-sabotage your efforts for success and happiness.
The research in the field of interpersonal neurobiology suggests that without conscious awareness and reflective practices we tend to interact with the world by repeating old habits of mind.
On the other hand, in psychotherapy you can learn helpful strategies to increase your conscious abilities to stay in control of your mind in the present moment and reduce intrusions of negative mind habits.
Yoga, meditation, and taichi are also found to increase self-awareness and lessen the intrusions of negative self-judgment on one's psyche.
Life is beautiful without unwanted thoughts and stress.
With proper strategies and tools it is possible to regain control over your thoughts.
I guess you are just having "thoughts" and not actually "hearing voices"?
My suggestion is to see a therapist and go from there.
You know have the right therapist if:Your counselor specializes in what you are seeking help for or they have experience with treating people with similar issues.
They are ethical and are able to understand your culture or religious norms.
They are licensed in your state.
They are able to provide you treatment that is tailored to your needs so that you can meet your goals for therapy.
They are non-judgmental and can show empathy to you.
They can meet you were you are in your journey of healing and understand you.
The location of the office or use of technology to hold sessions is something that you are comfortable with.
Recognize that a relationship with a counselor is like a relationship with any other person, sometimes you mesh well and sometimes you do not mesh well.
A counselor should never take any offense if you do not feel like a good fit with the counselor, just be honest with your counselor about how you are feeling about the relationship.
If you feel the need to change counselors, feel the freedom to change counselors as you will get more from therapy if you feel like you make a good team.
To "train" your therapist:Be honest about your needs, expectations, barriers and about your situation.
Know thyself and share that with your counselor.
Create attainable goals for yourself with the help of the counselor.
Set the pace that you are comfortable with.
Feel comfortable to share an agenda for each session.
When you have the right therapist you just know, as evidence of the help that you have received, the progress that you have made, from the rapport and partnership that you have gained with your therapist, and from if you feel supported in a way that is helpful to you, as well as if your therapist has a good understanding of what your needs are and what you desire to gain from your therapy experience.
This is a great question.
A good therapist should first be someone you can trust and second, someone who encourages you to be honest with yourself.
Therapy is a time to learn new coping skills and learn more about yourself.
You have the answers you need within yourself, but it sometimes takes a keen ear to lead you to those answers.
This can't happen without trust and honesty.
You may not always leave therapy feeling energized.
Therapy can be hard work.
But, you should always feel you have gained something to ponder that will help you better understand yourself.
If you connect with your therapist and can say whatever you want to say and not be judged.
Having the perfect therapist can be the key to any fruitful relationship.
My private practice uses Life Coaching, though I am professionally qualified in many therapeutic modalities.
The therapeutic relationship is the initial step of any treatment program or goal attainment process.
We can discover an appreciation of having discovered the best character to show you on this journey in excellent communication.
person get you and are you on the same page in the therapeutic process?
The therapist should have considerable experience that combines professional instruction on the matters that you need guidance to overpower.
If the therapist doesn't have all the fundamental experiences, is he/she prepared to locate the suitable means that you require or have the capabilities to recommend you to someone while following up and continuing a prosperous and beneficial relationship with you.
If for some reason you are required to continue with a therapist and advance on this relationship, make certain that the communication areas are consistently transparent.
Express yourself openly in disclosing your objectives and purpose.
Try to find a commonality with the therapist that encompasses various pathways of motivation for them to learn and grow while maintaining a focus on your present accomplishments.
Optimal Communication is consistently the key to a healthy relationship.
The right therapist is [a] man or woman with whom you see an immediate and continual improvement in your issue, up until the point when you no longer need them anymore.
Think of them as a mechanic who should be able to fix your car relatively quickly; and, if he doesn't fix it, you fire him.
One way is to bring one's concerns or desires to the therapist directly, rather than trying to subtly 'train' them.
Here's why I say that:One quite important healing factor in a psychotherapy is discovering that problems in the therapy and the therapeutic relationship can be solved together.
It is a safety zone or bridge for practicing that.
If it can be done with a trained, usually safe person (the therapist), the client might think, wow--what are the implications for my outside life and relations?
Could I get what I want outside of therapy, too, even if it feels not as safe?
If the therapist can deal with feedback (and any good therapist should be able to), this can be very productive.
Cooperation in this way, in the moment, with a live person who is supposed to have authority and knowledge in these matters, can be profoundly healing.
If the therapist can't take feedback or doesn't want to--or does nothing to act on it--maybe we could say the client has the wrong therapist.
If you are seeking personal development and challenge resolution in a Christian context, I am the right counselor for you.
I will balance the needs of your temperament with scripture, prayer, and cognitive therapy techniques.
You should feel generally comfortable with your therapist.
Your therapist should be able to challenge you when necessary, and be able to provide support at other times.
I don't know if you can really "train" your therapist to give you what you need from treatment.
Definitely let your therapist know what you need or want from treatment and see what they have to say about your ideas.
Do you think you are or at least will be able to make the progress you want to make with your current therapist?
There isn't one "right" therapist for you.
There should be a few therapists in your area you will work with well enough.
If you can have a productive, open dialogue with your therapist and you feel comfortable enough then you may already be in the right place.
If you are having lots of doubt about your therapist being the "right" one interview other therapists.
Your comfort with a therapist is one of the most essential aspects of a quality therapeutic relationship.
Don't be afraid to ask questions about the therapist's approach and background.
Do you feel heard and understood?
Do you find the feedback helpful and directed toward achieving your goals.
Ensuring open communication with your therapist is primary to making sure you have the right therapist.
You should like and trust your counselor.
But you will not believe the number of people I have met with that have described their past counselor as totally opposite than me or someone who didn't get me or had totally opposing beliefs as me.
Suggestion to the masses, do your research prior to entering counseling!
If you are someone who often cusses and is abrasive, you might not want to pick the counselor who is highly professional and uses sophisticated language throughout their site.
Pick someone who is more in line with your personality and wants for your future.
And even if you do your research beforehand and figure out you aren't vibing after a few sessions, that's okay!
Let your counselor know this, and who knows there might be something that can be done to make you feel more comfortable or maybe there isn't.
But the good thing to note is that there are thousands of human helpers in your city and your counselor would be happy to provide you with a referral to a better fitting therapist.
I think it's crucial that a person finds the "right" therapist.
Questions, questions, questions!
First I would ask them if they have experience and training in whatever the primary issues are that you are wanting to work on.
You want to make sure the therapist has the skills and experience to help you.
It's okay to ask "have you worked with these issues before?
and "Can you tell me what methods you use to treat these issues?
and "Are the methods you use evidenced-based?
Then I would ask what expectations the therapist is going to have of you the client.
Do they expect you to do homework, come with something to talk about each session, or keep a journal?
See if their expectations align with what you are looking for.
And lastly, I would schedule a session and "try out" the therapist.
See if you feel comfortable and safe.
As for "training" your therapist, I would suggest you be the leader of your therapy, ask for what you want, be direct and do hesitate to tell your therapist if you feel you are not getting what you need.
They can't read your mind and would likely find that information very valuable.
They want you to feel better and to make progress, and if they are going down the wrong path you should let them know.
The first thing I would ask yourself is how do you feel when it is time to go to therapy?
What do you notice inside your body?
Are you sick to your stomach?
Neutral?
Dreading it?
Your body will give you indications as to how safe you feel.
Your relationship with your therapist is like any other relationship, you need to feel safe, accepted and understood.
You want to see someone who you look forward to sitting across from and feel comfortable talking about whatever is on your heart and mind.
What are you preferences?
Do you feel more comfortable with a male or female therapist?
Does their age matter?
What kind of therapy do you want to do?
Do you know?
If not, you might want to talk to friends or family who have done therapy and ask them what they liked or didn't like, what worked for them and what the process was like.
You can always talk to a prospective therapist about all the questions you have (Have they worked with others with your issues?
Have they ever been in therapy?
Where did they go to school?
What kind of training do they have?
You may not know in the first session or two if you have the right therapist but pay attention to how you feel while you are there.
Your therapist should check in with you and ask how you are feeling.
If it's not a good match for you, your therapist should try and help you find someone who will be a good match.
Your trust and connection with your therapist is the biggest indicator for success in therapy.
Both of you should be concerned about your alliance and any good therapist will want you to find the best therapist for you!
You can certainly ask the therapist questions such as their style or issues they have experience working with.
You can also determine whether a therapist is the right fit if you feel a connection or alliance and feel that you are working together toward your goals.
It is important to be open and honest with your therapist about what you are looking for in counseling.
Though this varies from person to person, I think finding the right therapist involves finding someone who you're comfortable opening up to and speaking your mind, including your preferred areas of focus for treatment.
It's important to be aligned with your therapist's general approach and, to find someone who you feel genuinely attuned to, both in practice and also, with who they are as a person.
Bringing up your needs for treatment is key and finding someone who validates your needs, listens and welcomes feedback are all important building blocks for creating space for a great working relationship that promotes personal growth, openness and invites adaptable approaches in session, based on your individual needs.
How do you know anything is "right" for you?
I think it's an intuitive process, and not always based on the objective expertise of the therapist, either (most psychotherapy research has concluded that the client-therapist relationship is the strongest factor in success in therapy) But, in my view what is important to check-in with yourself around whether or not the therapist can hold space for all that you come in with (for example, not expressing discomfort with things you might talk about is a big "run away"), challenge you enough where you feel like it is challenging you to grow, but also where there is some part of you that does look forward to the sessions.
How to "train" your therapist?
This could be a session in and of itself I must say.
The therapist-client relationship can resemble many of the relationships in your life, or those that you seek out.
A therapist, like anyone else in your life, won't be able to give you what you need 100% of the time and then expect that you will be able to function outside of the space.
That can turn into a highly enabling process that won't help your other relationships.
However, what the therapist can do, and help you deal with, is to tell you what they can and can't give you, and then process the disappointment that you feel when they can't be everything you might feel you need.
Hello and thanks for your question!
It's important to have the right therapist.
I encourage you to start by checking out the website of the therapist.
Their blog articles will reflect the kind of work they do and the approach they may take while working with you.
If there's an email listed, go ahead and reach out.
Ask the particular questions that are on your mind.
Share a little of what you are looking for in a therapist.
Are you a goal-direct, solution-focused individual who is looking for someone to listen and ask questions?
Are you less self-directive and desire a therapist who can give you the consistent push to move forward?
Are you interested in intertwining certain theory approaches?
Maybe a cognitive-base or experiential?
Art therapy or engaging in exercise while talking?
Your therapist is out there.
It's OK to try out a therapist for a session or two.
Interview them as they interview you.
It's also OK to change therapists; ask your present therapist for a referral.
He or she should be willing to provide you with names of other providers and there's no shame in asking for it.
You deserve to work with someone who fits your style!
I imagine there's already enough things happening in your life if you are searching for a therapist.
Do you really want to "train" your therapist?
After all, you are paying them for their knowledge and expertise.
It does take time to develop a relationship and developing one with your therapist is vital to your growth and satisfaction.
Participating in therapy, for the most part, should be a time you anticipate and not avoid.
Can you be honest with them?
Are you trusting of the confidentiality they provide?
Has this person clearly shared with you the limits of confidentiality if using insurance versus paying privately?
Is there any part of you that "just isn't sure"?
It's okay to assert yourself in therapy.
As a therapist, I invite you to assert yourself as it's a way to develop self-confidence and resiliency.
Not everyone thrives in therapy by sitting in an office or lounging on a couch.
Some folks benefit by challenging themselves in various environments, or are more comfortable in their homes, online, in the community, at a retreat Give yourself a gift of spending some time finding the person that can work with you towards what you are searching.
Although there's the convenience of the local non-profit agency in your area, it may not be what you need.
Also, limiting yourself to the names of providers listed on your insurance may not lead to the "right one".
There are many forms of therapy that insurances refuse to cover.
When this happens, many times you can be reimbursed for your expenses by your insurance or you can use a Health Savings Card or Flexible Spending Card, there are many, many options.
Therapy is about exploring yourself.
Go ahead and feel free!
If you feel as if you need to "train" your therapist, it seems that person is not the right fit for you.
Engaging in treatment should be quite comfortable from the outset of treatment.
Many independent practitioners or small group providers offer a free consultation to start the relationship.
Perhaps that's a place for you to begin?
Good luck and I wish you well!
The most important part of therapy is finding a therapist who is the right fit and you feel you can connect to.
Feeling comfortable with your therapist and feeling that you can be vulnerable is what will assist in helping you find what you want out of therapy.
It also sounds like discussing with a potential therapist your expectations for therapy.
Also, I would read up on what the therapy process is like so that you are aware of the role the therapist is supposed to play in your life.
As long as a therapist is ethical and not breaking any ethical practices, find someone you connect with and can share with.
Finding the right therapist for you may take time - or you may find one the first try.
Two important things to think about when first finding a therapist are do I feel safe?
The first time seeing a therapist can be anxiety provoking. It may be uncomfortable.
Unless there are giant red flags about a therapist (things beyond meeting someone for the first time and answering uncomfortable but important questions), I always suggest seeing a therapist 3-4 times before making a decision to try another.
It may end up that you feel like your therapist isn't the best fit for you, but again, I encourage you to give them a couple times before moving on.
When you get past the initial sessions of paperwork and gathering information, you can gauge the client - therapist relationship better, and when you find the right person to work with, you will know it.
You should talk with the therapist.
In addition to asking the therapist about his/her experiences and specialty in treating the issue you want to address; you will gain a sense of the therapist's ability to connect with you in your first phone call or meeting with him/her.
This is why I offer a free 15-minute phone consultation.
You can use the above criteria to gauge the therapist's ability to do the following: Hear you, join with you in understanding the issue, and indicate some ways in which the issue may be treated.
Regarding training a therapist, just ask the therapist if he or she can comply with what you are looking for, or what has worked with you before if you have had prior counseling.
If you just like a therapist to listen, you are looking for a non-directive therapist.
If you want one to be more active in guiding you, choose a directive therapist.
You can also ask them with which type of client/issue they work best.
I specialize treating anxiety and relationships and would like to talk with you if you have questions about how I may be able to help you.
The therapeutic relationship should be collaborative.
The client is the expert on their life, and the therapist is the expert on helping the client to develop their sense of being.
Growth occurs as a result of challenges.
Therefore, I would suggest not looking to train the therapist, but rather to find one that will help you develop into the you that you desire to be.
Finding the right therapist is like finding a pair of black heels.
Not just any black heels will do.
But when you find them, you just know that your search is over.
It is also wise to expect that they won't always feel comfortable.
You'll know you have the right therapist when after the first few sessions you feel comfortable enough to tell them things you wouldn't tell anyone else.
It's important in therapy for that rapport to be built from the beginning and that you as the client feel comfortable enough to share what you need to share.
You shouldn't feel judgement from your therapist and you should be able to trust the advice your therapist provides.
Therapy isn't about advice, don't get me wrong, but to truly implement the changes that need to be implemented to improve your life you need to trust the person giving the advice.
Your therapist should have your best interest at heart and truly listen to what you have to say.
The therapist should be willing to meet you where you are in your world and attempt to see the world from your perspective to truly understand what you have been through.
You need to feel comfortable in therapy to be yourself and say what's on your mind.
Therapy shouldn't be something that should be dreaded but it can get uncomfortable depending on the depth of the things being discussed.
Finding the right therapist can be difficult, especially if you've never tried it before.
Things to consider are location, availability and what specifically are you looking for.
Some practitioners specifically only work with a certain type of issue (i.
e eating disorders, adolescents, anger management, life transitions, anxiety,etc) and others can work with a variety of concerns.
As far as training your therapist, you can't.
You simply let them know what you are looking to work on or what you think may be an issue for you.
Depending on the way they practice(their style of working with clients) is how they will then decide to make a treatment plan that works best for you.
You can always ask them their specialty practice population, the problems they generally help others with and what type of mental health provider they are.
Choosing the right therapist can sometimes feel a bit overwhelming.
I know many people come to therapy with hesitations and potential fears but a therapist should be there to help you along the way and support you as you build a trusting and collaborative relationship.
You won't have to "train" your therapist to give you what you need.
Through open dialogue and feedback you and your therapist, together, can determine what works best for you.
But do remember that being able to trust your therapist to guide and support you is key.
So if you're having a hard time connecting with your therapist after 3-4 sessions, you will want to bring it up to them so you can discuss any barriers and if needed, request a referral for another therapist.
Counselors do not expect to gain your trust during the first session.
Trust is earned and gained through the therapeutic process.
You may know you have the right therapist if you feel a lack of judgement or even unconditional positive regard for the choices you make in therapy.
Good counselors will keep you accountable for your actions without making you feel ashamed of the choice you made.
Counselors already have the training to give you what you need in treatment, and if they don't they are ethically obligated to refer you to a provider that does.
That being said, the first few visits with your counselor will be goal oriented-creating realistic and obtainable goals that will allow you and your therapist to see positive change when it is made.
You will know you have the right therapist when you feel at ease and comfortable to share deep feelings.
You do not hold back and feel total acceptance and validation by your therapist.
Listen to your feelings and letthem guide your decision.
Your therapist and you will work together to decide what is best for you with regards to the type of treatment, frequency andduration.
It is about collaborating and deciding together on the treatment plan that will help you to achieve your counseling goals.
The most important thing is it has to feel right.
While that sounds vague and not very scientific it is the most important part of therapy.
Us counselors call it therapeutic rapport and without it therapy is not very effective.
You want to know you can trust your therapist, that you are not being judged, that they respect your privacy, that you feel comfortable talking to them about the good and the bad.
You want to feel heard and know you therapist is genuine.
Not all therapist are a good fit for everyone.
Go with your gut.
As an added note I recommend going with a therapist who has done their own therapy!
What an important question!
I think one of the first things to assess is this: Do you feel comfortable with your therapist?
Do you feel like you can talk openly about what's going on in your life without feeling judged?
Do you experience your therapy as a safe space to process your thoughts and feelings?
Feeling comfortable with your therapist is a crucial factor.
Once you feel comfortable with your therapist, you can have a conversation about what works for you in therapy.
Tell your therapist what is helpful, and what you don't find helpful.
A skilled therapist can shift his or her style and techniques to meet your individual needs, and this may be an ongoing conversation that the two of you have during therapy.
Oftentimes, there is just an X factor between client and therapist that either makes the relationship work or can make it feel like something is missing.
This is no one's fault, it's just that not every therapist will be a perfect match for every client.
If you feel uncomfortable with your therapist or feel like that x factor is missing, it is a good idea to keep searching for therapist who is right for you.
This is a great question.
Finding the right therapist can be tricky because you don't really know how someone will be like until you meet them.
Once you meet your therapist it is important to be clear with your wishes and expectations.
We are trained in helping you thrive in your life but we cannot mind read so if you don't tell us, we won't know.
Don't be shy about what you like and what you don't like.
A good therapist will listen to your needs, process them with you, and create a customized plan that works for you and your life.
A good therapist will also not take anything you say (even criticism) personally.
Coming to therapy is hard and often times you might not want to go.
What makes a good therapist is someone who understands this and tries to make you feel as comfortable as possible while you address uncomfortable topics.
I believe that the right counsellor will help you feel empowered, supported and understood.
You should feel comfortable opening up and not be concerned that they will judge you for what you say or decide to do.
I find this important to let my clients know during intake that they will never be judged for the decisions they decide to take while going over options in sessions together with me.
In terms of what you need from treatment, please feel comfortable to open up to your therapist and tell them what you need from them.
For example, do you prefer them to challenge you with questions, listen to your story and ask questions throughout or near the end, give you work to do outside of sessions?
The therapy sessions will work best for you if you can help them support you in what will work for you.
It can sometimes take a few trials of different therapists to find the right one so please do not give up if you feel disheartened!
You should feel proud of yourself for taking the first big step in asking for help, that is not easy to do and you are on the right track already!
Such a good question!
Sometimes, clients will feel like they are not connecting with their therapist and will put it on themselves.
In truth, the bond between therapist and client is the #1 predictor of positive outcomes in therapy.
Ask yourself these questions: does it feel like this person can come to care about me?
Do they remember from week to week what we touched on?
Do I feel compassion from this person?
Do they allow me my difficult and painful feelings too, or do they try to rescue me?
On your other question - I suggest you ask your therapist what goals he/she has for your treatment.
See if they respond with interest and participation, or if they become clinical and distant.
Ideally, you and your therapist jointly develop your goals, and check on your progress on a frequent basis.
I don't know if you can actually 'train' your therapist - we can be a hard bunch to train!
:-) - but you can definitely tell your therapist what works for you, and what didn't work, at the end of each session.
How they react will also tell you a lot about whether this is the right person for you.
"This is a great question.
There could be a few ways to know that you've found a good fit and you and your therapist are therapeutically compatible.
First, I would recommend listening to your intuition and pay attention to how you feel, if there are feeling-indicators that you are comfortable, feel safe and willing to open up and share your story.
Second, do you feel the therapist you are considering will support and challenge you in ways you need.
Some therapist offers a free consultation.
This might be a good opportunity to take advantage of.
Good question!
The client's job is to concentrate on stating the details of their problem and to thoughtfully engage in a dialogue about these areas with the therapist.
The most difficult job for a client is willingness to self-examine, hold oneself accountable for relationship and life situations, and honestly feel the difficult, often painful feelings and insecurities which troubling situations create.
The client doesn't train the therapist.
If you feel you are with a therapist who requires you to train them, then politely decline continuing to pay for their services.
Then find yourself a different therapist who feels secure and knowledgeable enough in their skills to not require training by their client.
Thinking whether or not you have the right therapist can be overwhelming if you are not sure what you want or need.
But think of this, you feel safe and comfortable that you share what you've never told anybody.
You feel understood and listened to.
You feel their support.
You trust them.
Do you believe they can help you?
If you do not, then that might make it hard for you to want to open up.
As far as how would you how to train your therapist to help you.
If you know what you need all you have to do is share this with your therapist.
If you don't know then therapy is a collaborative process so both you and your therapist will work together to figure out your needs and how to best meet them.
The "right" therapist is a combination of expertise in the areas where you require, and fit as far as how comfortable you feel in speaking and sharing with that person.
People generally are quite good at determining whether or not someone fits well with their personality and style; and another key to know whether therapy is working is to ask yourself: "Do I see that changes have come about since working with this therapist?
Do I feel better?
Am I reaching goals that I set at the onset of therapy?
Are difficult situations becoming easier by how I handle them?
Training a therapist really isn't necessary, as all it requires is open and honest communication in order to give effective feedback that will in turn be helpful to you and your goals.
You have the right therapist if you feel safe with that person.
Safety consists of feeling that who you are and what you say is valued.
The right therapist is not an 'all knowing person you must obey'.
He or she is a person with skilled knowledge who respects you as a partner in your self discovery.
The right therapist is also one who is kind.
This is a really important question, because you don't want to waste your time and money with a therapist who is not a good fit for you.
I think the most important factor that makes a good therapist match is trust-- do you trust this person to be able to help you meet your therapy goals?
There are few things you can do upfront to test this out, without spending a dime.
First, ask for personal recommendations from friends or others.
If you know someone who had a great experience with a certain therapist, you'll feel more confident in that person right off the bat.
Second, do your online research.
Google the person's name and read everything you can find.
Many therapists are starting to develop more of an online presence because they know that's a way future clients can develop trust without even stepping in their door.
See if they have a blog, social media posts, or even just read the tone of the content on their website.
This might give you a glimpse of their therapy style.
Finally, you can call or email potential therapists and provide a brief overview of your presenting problem and describe what you're looking for in your ideal therapist.
It sounds like you have a specific idea of what you're looking for, most therapists will be honest if they don't feel they're going to meet your expectations.
Some therapists offer free short phone consultations which can help you both decide if you would work well together.
Do your homework upfront, and you'll be well on your way to finding a great therapist for you!
It's more than just normal, it's expected!
Quite honestly, there are a very few days where at least one client hasn't cried during therapy throughout the day.
Yes it is absolutely normal!
A good therapist can help your feel safe enough to really identify painful wounds.
There are some things that need to be cried about before they can heal.
Therapists are fine with tears and buy tissues by the case.
That said, if you don't cry during therapy it doesn't mean you are doing it "wrong".
As long as you feel safe and have a sense that your therapist "gets you", and you feel progress during your course of treatment, you are doing therapy "right"!
Absolutely it's normal to cry in therapy sessions.
Sometimes clients have stories they never shared with anyone or never said out loud and that results to crying.
Crying is a normal reaction to feeling hurt or sad or sometimes angry.
I welcome all crying to my therapy room.
Crying in therapy is a natural response, a relief to what you are going through.
It is an expression of emotions, which is why you are going to therapy - to express yourself in a safe, nonjudgmental space.
Rather than trying to stop crying, sit on the couch with it until it is done and you have finished with the clearing.
The energy is not blocked, is moving - a good thing.
It's good to cry.
Although not everyone cries in therapy.
In my opinion crying is a emotion that some express in therapy.
Crying is something that some express when it's hard to discuss situations that may have never been discussed, When discussing traumatic experiences, and at times crying has even happened to some of my past clients when they have had a breakthrough in their therapy process.
It is generally very normal to cry in therapy, and for many reasons.
Therapy should be a safe space to explore emotions as they come up and how you cope with these emotions.
I would encourage you to talk with your therapist about crying and to explore your experience of emotions/feelings.
Sometimes people will apologize for crying.
However, emotions and expression of emotions is part of being human.
There is no "right" or "wrong" emotion to have.
How we express and cope with emotions is more of something to explore in therapy if it is hindering your life.
Either extreme of keeping emotions in and avoiding or feeling like your emotions run your life/struggle to regulate your emotions is something to explore in therapy, as this is often the most distressing and troublesome for people.
Hopefully this provides some insight.
It is absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
Therapy is a place to be honest about and explore your feelings without feeling judged.
Honesty is the only way you will benefit from therapy and that means being willing to look at your true emotions rather than avoiding them.
"Absolutely!
Therapy is the best time to have the opportunity to open up and deal with the range of emotions that may be bothering you.
Therapy is a safe space to take time out of your normal daily life and cope with the emotions that are hiding underneath.
If, for some reason, you are not comfortable in therapy, you should address this concern with your therapist or find someone whom you feel more comfortable opening up with and express yourself comfortably.
Crying is clearing.
It is a release of energy and toxins.
Crying is a good thing and a great way to let go and move forward!
Therapy is such a personal process and often brings many emotions to the forefront, so yes, it very normal to cry in therapy.
Often you are talking about your deepest challenges and fears, so it is quite typical to expect some tears when making yourself so vulnerable.
It's absolutely normal.
Therapy provides a space where you can be free to express yourself and experience all of your emotions fully.
Crying is a form of release, and many people feel like they do not have any other space where they can let out their emotions.
Crying can be a healthy way to be present with your emotions.
While not everyone will cry during a therapy session, you're not the first, and definitely not the last.
Dang right it's normal, and even necessary at times.
Weeping provides chemical shifts which also shift the experience you're having.
Not only are their physical detoxification benefits to crying, but there are also emotional releases that come with it.
Weeping can be the first step to an unclogging of a blockage, so that your energy can flow more smoothly.
This is one of those cases where there is "no wrong answer.
Many people DO cry, while others do not.
Some people speak quietly, others may yell, and some find it painfully difficult to say anything at all in a therapeutic setting.
My office has tissues readily on hand, and any client who uses them is assured that they are free to express the emotions they feel in a safe space.
For many people, crying is a stress-release valve.
It is perfectly OK to cry in counseling!
I love to see tears!
There's an old saying, "The eyes are the windows to the soul.
External emotions are a pretty good indicator of what's going on inside the person, and if tears are present, that often means the person is processing (moving forward) through their emotions!
I'm more concerned when I don't see tears from my clients because that can mean the client is "stuck.
So, don't feel bad for crying!
You are moving through your emotions to a place of healing!
Of course you can cry!
Therapy is a safe place where you can be who you are with no fear of being judged.
Every counselor/therapist is dedicated to protect the confidentiality (with some exceptions) of all that happens in session.
Crying helps to release tension and help secure free emotional space.
It may provide you with the presence of mind that therapy demands.
Absolutely normal!
Therapy should be a place where you can feel safe to explore and express all of your emotions.
Some clients may cry easier than others and there is no "right way" to do therapy.
I have many clients who cry each session.
And I have many other clients who cry periodically.
And I have others who haven't cried once.
Each person is different however therapy should be a place where you feel safe expressing yourself.
Of course!
There are some people who will never cry during sessions and some that always cry.
In counseling you may be talking about very vulnerable topics and experiences and it may even be the first time you are talking to someone about your concerns, thoughts, or feelings.
It is perfectly natural to cry if you are so moved.
Yes, it's totally normal!
Crying is a part of processing the tough stuff, no matter your age, gender or background and the therapeutic session is a safe space to do this.
Sometimes crying can offer relief or provide room for deeper authenticity in session as you let both your strength and vulnerability shine in alignment.
Crying during a therapy session is not unusual.
When we are in a safe environment, such as a therapists office, it allows us to disarm our defenses.
By disarming our defenses we are able to feel and express our emotions.
Oftentimes, these emotions result in tears.
I personally feel that crying in a therapy session is the one of the most beautiful parts of the healing process.
Yes, it is very normal.
Some people cry frequently, but not fully.
They're good at crying but never seem to heal from what's hurting them.
Crying is supposed to be good for you.
Tears contain toxins, after all.
And feel-good chemicals are released in the body whenever we cry tears of sadness.
Never judge your feelings while you're having them; there's always a reason something's a big deal to you.
Cry for your own pain, not just for others'.
Crying in movies and when listening to sad songs is a good way to let off some built-up emotion.
But you may not be dealing directly with your own hurts when that happens.
Remember it's okay to cry for yourself.
Let yourself cry over spilt milk.
You don't have to wait till somebody dies.
You can cry about anything that triggers you, no matter how seemingly trivial.
Don't set a time limit on tears.
Your heart will decide when enough is enough.
If you connect with the true source of your pain, you'll find it's finite.
But you don't get to dictate a time limit for your sorrow.
Be patient.
Pick up where you left off.
If you have to keep a stiff upper lip, perhaps because you're at work, check in with yourself later and see how you feel.
Reflect on the incident in private if you feel it's unresolved.
Don't stress out if you can't recapture the pain.
Tears are like cats: You can't lead them on a leash.
Speak only kind words to yourself.
When you cry, watch for self-critical and invalidatingself-talklike this:It's not that big a dealI'm too sensitiveBig boys/girls don't cryInstead, say, I'm sorry and I'm with you and I love you.
Don't say these things in order to make yourself stop crying.
Say them in order to be compassionate to yourself.
Cry in public.
If you've never cried in public before, you may be surprised to find that many people will be drawn to you.
Your tears make you vulnerable, and therefore no threat to others.
Kindness is a frequent response to public tears.
If you remember just one thing from this post, let it beself-compassion.
Yes, many people cry during therapy!
Crying can offer a type of release as your body reacts to the input of your autonomic nervous system.
Some people release endorphins when they cry, which can make you feel better than before.
If you're concerned about how much you cry during therapy, it might be good to discuss with your therapist.
They may be able to make some suggestions of how to honor your feelings in a way that works for you.
Yes, it is normal to experience many different emotions in therapy because you are dealing with issues and situations that matter to you.
Sometimes you may cry, sometimes you may feel joy, and sometimes you may feel relief.
Sometimes you might even feel anger.
Everything you feel in therapy can be used to help you learn more about yourself and help you grow.
Yes, it is very normal to cry during a therapy appointment.
When you meet with a counselor, you are opening yourself up and sharing very vulnerable sides of yourself.
Through this deep introspection, emotions (sometimes unexpected) can come out and this is completely okay and very healthy.
Research has shown that crying reduces pain by releasing oxytocin and endorphins and reduces stress through the release of stress reduction hormones.
Definitely. Therapy helps us work through the tough stuff.
It's a safe place where we can let our guards down.
When you are getting things out verbally, a physical and emotional response is completely natural.
Crying is a healthy release.
Many people cry during therapy - some perhaps once in a while, and others may every session.
Wherever you are on that spectrum, it is absolutely normal and you are not at all alone.
Yes, absolutely.
In therapy you will be delving into topics and feelings that are often suppressed throughout daily life.
As you explore many emotions may come up, anger, disappointment, grief, frustration, sadness, to name a few.
These and many other emotions often lead to crying and your therapist will be there to hold space and support you through it.
Crying is a very healthy release of energy so feeling comfortable enough with your therapist that it happens during session is a great thing!
It's absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
I imagine that you are being vulnerable and open to exploring some deep seeded issues.
Also, it may be a good sign that you feel safe and held with your therapist that you are able to freely express those strong emotions.
Change is about giving a new meaning to past experience, to allow for the emotions we stored in our body to be freed.
Crying is normal and one way to process emotions to help let go and integrate our experiences.
Yep. Counseling can be very emotional at times.
I've recommended to clients, on occasion, that they allow themselves the rest of the day off after doing trauma work.
"Crying in therapy is definitely normal.
A lot of people, if not most, cry in therapy.
Why does it happen?
During therapy you'll explore your thoughts and emotions.
Some of them will be pleasant: joy, hope, excitement, so you will smile and laugh.
Others may be more unpleasant, such as grief, sadness or anger, so you may feel like shouting or crying.
It's healthy to accept and feel all your emotions and to express them in appropriate ways.
Crying is a good way of expressing sadness, disappointment and helplessness.
If you try to cut off some.
of the "negative" feelings, you are likely to also cut off your positive ones and feel numb as a result.
Crying in therapy speaks to your ability to relax and let go in the presence of another human being (essential for healthy relationships) and it also speaks to your therapist's skills at making you feel safe and comfortable.
Good for you!
It's your therapy and you can cry if you want to!
Yes, it is very normal to cry in therapy.
Expressing your feelings is very cathartic and allows you to gain a deeper understanding into yourself and how the issue is affecting you.
I would say that's the whole point of therapy!
Cry your heart out.
Therapy should be a place where you feel ok to be vulnerable when you are working through your stuff.
It's when your mind and your heart finally meet and you make the connections you need to make.
It is normal to feel an array of emotions in therapy.
Most people use therapy as a way to process their life's struggles and often times this results in them crying during session.
Crying is a way to release those negative emotions and to cope with what is happening in life.
We have come to believe that crying is something bad at times and so have conditioned ourselves to avoid crying out in public places.
In therapy though, where there are no such expectations and where you can be open and honest about how you are feeling it is normal to cry.
Yes, definitely crying is normal during therapy.
Anyone in the midst of new awareness of how they've been hurt, or feel despair or great sadness from burdensome life situations, naturally will feel tears come up.
Therapists are familiar with people crying during a session and will know how to be present for you while you sort through your painful emotions.
Therapy is by nature a safe place to discuss difficult, or painful memories or experiences and thereby it is normal that feelings of all kinds, including sadness, loss, frustration, disappointment, etc may arise.
This is part of processing and bringing closure to things that may have been pushed aside for a lifetime and can now be faced and dealt with.
Change too is often not easy, and can lead to crying, whether from frustration and set back, or also from joy and accomplishment!
This is a great question!
I often wonder about what normal really means.
Counseling is a personal process where many emotions can be experienced by people.
I I do not believe it is just you who cries in therapy.
Therapy can bring out many emotions such as laughter, anger, frustration, relief, grief, sadness, and many more emotions.
Talking to your counselor about your experience might provide insight and healing for you.
If crying surprised you and you feel comfortable that might be something you could bring up with your counselor.
Yes, it is normal to cry during therapy, it is a time of catharsis, letting things out, shedding our skin, dropping our weights and just to let you know, even therapists sometimes feel like crying in sessions.
Although people often cry or become upset, it is in no way a measure of "good therapy".
It is very routine to feel all of the different emotions in therapy.
I have had clients cry in therapy out of happiness, sadness, love, joy, and from laughing so hard!
Yes, crying is a normal part of therapy for many people.
Let me start by saying there are never too many concerns that you can bring into counselling.
In fact, most people who come to see me for counselling have more than one issue they would like to work on in psychotherapy and most times these are all interconnected.
In counselling, we work together, collaboratively, to figure out which issues you would like to address first and then together we develop an individualized plan of care.
Basically, it's like a road map of where you want to go, how are you going to get there, looking at stopovers, some scenic routes others possibly not so scenic, however, necessary.
Of course, these plans can also change due to internal (what we have control over like our thoughts, feelings and behaviours) or external reasons (those things that are outside our control).
I would encourage you to take the next step and reach out to a professional you can trust and build rapport with by co-journeying through whatever concerns you have by examining what has been working so far as you have learned to cope with some of your issues like insomnia, depression and anxiety, as well as being a breast cancer survivor.
Then to help you by developing new coping strategies.
Psychotherapy can be such a powerful tool to help you get to where it is you want to be.
I know you can do it and you will see first-hand how psychotherapy will help you to move past these points in your life where you are feeling stuck.
It is never too late to get help and begin making significant changes and improvements in your life.
The right time is when you feel ready and open to change.
Sometimes when we have a history of trauma, like sexual abuse, the impact of that trauma can affect many areas of our lives as adults.
Working with a therapist who specializes in trauma is a great way to begin developing skills to manage present day life, learn to regulate your emotions and nervous system when you become triggered, and then in a safe environment have the opportunity to process past traumas so you can live your present life with more ease and joy.
People can and do recover from the impacts of trauma at any stage in their life.
It is never too late and you can feel better.
You have been through so much and it sounds like you have a lot of things that have complied over the years.
Regardless of the struggles you have been through, you do not have too many issues for counseling.
Many times when someone starts out their counseling and healing journey, there are multiple things they would like to address and work on.
If you decide to start counseling, you and your therapist can decide collaboratively what you would like to process and work on first.
Be sure to express to your counselor if any of the above experiences you've been through is causing a lot of distress, as many times the first things addressed are the ones that are presently affecting your life or you emotionally.
Often times when we experience negative situations in our life, but do not address them, they bottle up inside us and can manifest in other ways, such as depression or even physical symptoms like IBS or neck pain.
Counseling can give these bottled up emotions and situations a release.
Given the situation you shared, not only do I not think that you have too many issues for counseling, but believe that you will be a great candidate and can get a lot from it.
Absolutely not.
I strongly recommending working on one issue/need at a time.
In therapy you will set smart goals and objectives that will help you reach your goals.
I see you as a survivor and not a victim.
Best wishes to you.
Absolutely not!
In fact, most people have many issues, A lot lot of the issues you are describing commonly go hand in hand ( in "therapy speak" we call it co-morbid conditions)I would venture that most of the feelings you are struggling with stem from your early trauma.
You would benefit tremendously from counseling!
A good therapist will develop a treatment plan that addresses all of your needs.
With help you could definitely live a happy life without all of your anxiety and depression getting in the way!
This is a great question!
I personally don't believe that any client could ever have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, that type of thinking may be stopping you from seeking counseling, so it may be hindering you from getting the help you need.
In fact, all of what you described points to the importance of you seeking help in order to cope with the many challenges in your life.
If you seek counseling, it will be important for you to understand that you may need to remain in counseling for a sustained period of time in order to work through each of these issues.
All of these issues won't be able to be solved right away or in a brief period of time.
Counseling will take commitment and hard work, but it is possible for you to recover and heal from all of the issues you described.
Many clients come into counseling with numerous issues rather than just one particular thing.
Most of the time, the issues relate to and exacerbate each other.
We call these "comorbid" conditions, which means that two or more mental health problems exist at one time.
A lot of the times, when you start to work on one issue, the other issues get better as a result.
I encourage you to find a professional therapist that can help you learn how to cope with all of the mental health difficulties that you described.
You deserve the help just as much as anyone else.
Hi! Many people begin their therapeutic journey with histories just like yours and experience transformative shifts in their quality of life.
I hope you are able to find a counselor you feel comfortable working with and do the work if you feel called.
Best of luck on your journey!
Absolutely not.
It sounds like you have significant trauma and it will continue to impact your depression until it is dealt with.
Everybody has issues, though some more traumatic than others yet it is best to just start somewhere.
I would encourage you to begin counseling and work through some of your history at your own pace in order to begin to impact and reduce your depressive symptoms.
Most clients have many issues that need working out.
It is normal to have many events in our lives that trouble us and remain with us without counseling help.
The right type of counsellor will help you focus on the main and most troubling issue you have first and work your way through all that you are managing step by step, goal by goal.
Sometimes, working on one issue helps to bring other issues to light in the context of your main problem.
This can help you resolve some other issues that are connected.
Look for someone with experience and specialty in your most pressing issue,even though you have had breast cancer, you may find that grief from your past is more troubling.
Then you would look for a bereavement or grief specialist.
Just go!
You start with the most prevalent issue by talking with your therapist.
Healing one issue can have a ripple effect and heal other issues as well.
There is no such thing as too many issues for counseling.
Many issues are often interrelated and can all be worked on with some time and patience.
Hi, people who have only a few issues and people who have several issues are perfect for therapy.
There is no such thing as having too many problems for therapy.
Therapy is great because it will help you process all that you are going through, heal from past and present pain, and gain clarity.
Yeah, you might.
At least, it certainly feels like that, I bet,Not to mention that most counselors out there might generally feel overwhelmed with a "case" with so many problems.
And, so, you will slog along week-to-week with gradual improvements occurring as she slowly does her best to chip away,The real issue is that these folks don't yet comprehend the integrative nature of each of these subjects and how generally simple it is to understand them, and then eradicate them.
It could be said that you might be the perfect candidate for counseling!
No one is beyond hope, and someone brave enough to be honest regarding their struggles, with the intention of reaching out for help is certainly a person a qualified counselor would be happy to assist.
You may want to do some research on therapists in your local area who specialize in mind-body connection, or one of the struggles you have acknowledged in your post, in order to find a therapist that is best suited to meet your needs.
Good luck on your search, and remember that the world is a better place with you in it.
No, there are never too many issues to address in counseling.
Therapy would begin by prioritizing what you feel needs to be addressed first.
As one area improves, such as processing history of abuse you are likely to see improvement in other areas of your life, like sleeping better.
"Firstly, I would like to say how amazing that you have been able to live through breast cancer, sexual abuse as well as your depression and anxiety.
You are stronger than you may believe at this moment for being able to continue to grow and live through these experiences.
Take a moment to acknowledge your strength and know that this strength will be an asset during the therapeutic process that you will be able to tap into to find increased self esteem and more strength to address the concerns you are having.
There are never too many concerns to address in therapy sessions.
I hope you can find a great therapist who you can trust to listen and work with you to identify and address.
the most concerning issues first.
Once you begin to do this you may find an alleviation of symptoms and feelings which could allow you to grow your capacity to manage difficult feelings and situations and address additional concerns.
Before you even realize it the issues you are having will begin to feel more manageable.
Absolutely not!
It is never too much.
The most important thing is that you are reaching out to get help.
Therapy helps you to develop healthier coping strategies and that can help reduce the anxiety and depression as well as improve your sleep.
This can all be done at a pace that is best for you.
Your therapist can help you process all of this in a safe and supportive space.
No, it is natural for us to have a number of issues going on if we don't address the concerns we have in our lives.
Seeking counseling can assist you in working on these issues individually as well as ways in which they intersect and impact each other.
The most direct answer is no.
I would venture to guess that several of the things you are feeling (symptoms) are connected.
I would recommend a trauma counselor.
You have several strengths (resources) that you are able to pull from and I would encourage you to focus on them as you deal with the issues you have placed on the back burner for so long.
Sometimes people are afraid to address things because they feel or believe that they won't be able to handle it.
Compare it to a tornado.
The storm has passed, but you are still in hiding for fear of the aftermath (the mess left behind).
A good therapist is like a personal organizer to help you.
It's not really a question of whether you have too many issues for counseling but more what would you like to work on in counseling?
You control the direction of sessions and depending on how you're feeling in a particular day can predict what direction that session takes.
If you want to work on all the issues you've listed it will just take some dedication on your part to see through the counseling long enough to find a resolution to each of the issues that is satisfactory to you.
You work at your own pace in counseling and it does seem like you may be overwhelmed with the ever-growing list.
But you may just be in search of self improvement and making yourself better, which is a great thing.
It seems as though you may need some form of resolution to what has happened in the past and to work through the trauma you have experienced.
That may be the base of your counseling needs in which self esteem and depression/anxiety may fall underneath it as well.
If you want to start counseling don't let what you need to work on overwhelm you.
Find the counselor that best fits with you and together you both can tackle any issue.
A person never has "too many" issues to address in counseling.
Participating in counseling with a licensed professional offers a safe place and therapeutic relationship where healing can occur.
A trained therapist can help a person unpack and process past and/or current wounds (or events) which may negatively impact day to day living.
They can also help make sense of thoughts and emotions that sometimes feel overwhelming and confusing.
If you want to experience more emotional freedom and gain some tools to help understand and cope with depression and anxiety, I'd encourage you to schedule an appointment with a therapist in your area.
There is no such things as "too many issues".
Many of the issues cited here are connected.
For example, in this case working on the sexual abuse will possibly address the depression, the anxiety, the self esteem.
There may be some grief to process around the impact of the cancer.
Our body, mind and spirit are parts of one system.
They are interconnected.
Addressing these issue are important so you can be relieved of the burden and feel more spontaneous and enjoy life even more.
Of course not.
Counseling is a process, whereby you and your therapist will help you create goals- starting with issues that are most pressing and interfering with your daily functioning.
When anxiety and daily stress is more manageable then you and your therapist can examine more deep rooted or more chronic issues.
You definitely don't have too many issues for counseling.
In fact, counseling can help you understand how most of these things can be related to one another.
For example, insomnia, depression, low self-esteem and anxiety are very common to experience after a traumatic event or events.
Once you begin to work through processing these life altering events that you have experienced, the hope is that you would see a decrease in your other symptoms.
You absolutely do not have too many issues for counselling.
The fact that you are wanting to seek help is commendable and you should feel proud of yourself for reaching out for support.
I know from my experience working with clients that some may say they have only one issue but when we explore it turns out they have many things that they want to discuss that are of equal importance.
I believe that you deserve to feel happy, at ease and also get restful sleep amongst other things.
Please do not feel hesitant because the fact that you know what you want to discuss and work on is amazing.
You know the directions you want to go and the therapist just needs to help you get there.
I suggest sitting down and making a list of what you want to discuss as well as what you feel is more important to address first.
Perhaps the therapist can help you with that as well.
Thank you for sharing your question.
I imagine it feels overwhelming and discouraging at times if you feel like there are too many issues to address in a counseling session.
I would encourage you to share these concerns with a counselor because a counselor can help you organize the concerns into a list of specific goals.
For example, a list of goals may look similar to this:1.
"I will learn about the effects of medication on the symptoms of depression and anxiety."
"I will learn about the factors that affect insomnia."
"I will learn about resources and support groups in my local area to help me cope with my traumatic experiences."
"I will practice self-care exercises each day and write about my thoughts and feelings in a journal so I can measure whether or not I"m making progress."
This is an example of some of the possible goals a counselor can help you work toward each week.
Working toward a specific goal can lead to a feeling of accomplishment once you've completed it, and this may have a positive impact on your self-esteem.
I hope this information helps, and I wish you all the best!
There are never too many issues in living.
In a way we take on too many issues at one time.
Then we become over whelmed with "anxiety and depression.
A skillful, caring therapist will help you find a place to start and deal with one issue at a time.
when this helps the other issues.
Then the other issues become more manageable.
I gain.
confidence I can take on life better and, importantly, enjoy living life more.
There are never "too many issues" to be addressed in therapy.
Most people come in with multiple issues they want to address.
The wonderful thing about therapy, is that often, as one or more significant issues begin to change and improve- the lead naturally without much effort to improvements in the other areas.
(For example, as you begin to address trauma and betrayal from you past, you may find that the insomnia improves).
Your therapist, with you input and direction, can help you to prioritize which problem areas to target first.
You can be helped.
Many of the people I see have multiple issues.
These issues are often linked so that helping one issue will positively help the other issues.
The short answer is: absolutely not!
The longer answer is that it might take some time to process all of the issues, and it may feel quite "muddy" in the issues for a lot longer than is tolerable (which is why counseling may have been postponed to begin with for you) It's important to be realistic when entering counseling of any sort, and that the therapist be realistic with you about what you might be able to expect working with that person (I use the words "might be able to expect" because therapy experiences can vary).
But that not having counseling about trauma that you have experienced much earlier in your life can play a significant role in the process and how long that process could take to unpack all that may have been buried over time.
It might also be helpful in counseling to work with the therapist on figuring out where to begin, but to also manage the feelings of being overwhelmed that may make it hard to continue to show up and do the work required, week in and week out.
It isn't easy work trying to process past pain that you experienced, and so consistent practice of self-care, including leaning on support systems outside of therapy, is key.
Usually people who struggle with depression also have symptoms of anxiety.
These symptoms come about as a result of underlying causes.
The obstacles you have been overcoming such as abuse, cancer and insomnia likely bring about similar feelings and emotions in you which affect your self-esteem.
Counseling is meant to support people who have layers of difficulties.
We see the difficulties as layers to an onion, peeling away the many layers.
Often times when an individual begins the counseling process it is revealed that there is more than one thing going on.
When we think about how much is wrong, it can be overwhelming and we may not know where to even start.
Counseling can provide guidance to help you to begin working toward healing in a way that is most helpful for you to reach your goals.
It is very common forpeople to have multiple issues that they want to (and need to) address in counseling.
I have had clients ask that same question and through more exploration, there is often an underlying fear that they "can't be helped" or that they will "be too much for their therapist.
I don't know if any of this rings true for you.
But, most people have more than one problem in their lives and more often than not, people have numerous significant stressors in their lives.
Let's face it, life can be complicated!
Therapists are completely ready and equipped to handle all of the issues small or large that a client presents in session.
Most therapists over the first couple of sessions will help you prioritize the issues you are facing so that you start addressing the issues that are causing you the most distress.
You can never have too many issues to address in counseling.
All of the issues you mention above can be successfully worked through in counseling.
Absolutely not!
When we have the courage to accept the challenge to address whatever is causing us pain, the solutions often generalize to many, if not all of our symptoms.
I would suggest that unresolved trauma from sexual abuse is likely a primary contributing factor.
However, it is important that you first build a trusting relationship with a therapist experienced in trauma treatment as this is an area of specialty that not all therapists are skilled in treating.
Choosing one issue to work on, such as anxiety or depressive symptoms, and starting there will allow you the opportunity to get to know your therapist, learn coping skills for managing distressing symptoms, and establish emotional safety before jumping into trauma work.
Hello there,No one has too many issues to address in counseling.
Once you start counseling, your therapist will help you identify which issues to start working on first and which are causing you the most distress.
Once you and your therapist prioritize your concerns, you can start to address each concern, starting with the one causing the most distress for you.
It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed.
But you are also a survivor and have the benefit of a long, stable marriage.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
A good therapist will help you to partialize your goals into smaller objectives and focus in on what's most pressing for you to address first in treatment.
Hello! You may have heard the saying that counseling is like peeling the layers of an onion.
Whether a person comes to therapy with many issues on their heart and mind or whether he/she comes with something specific, one issue leads to another.
Please don't feel as though you have too many issues.
You are important and worthy.
On the plus side, you are a breast cancer survivor and have a wonderful marriage!
Seek the help that you deserve.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
And your perseverance will serve you well if you choose to engage in therapy.
The trauma and medical event you experienced topped off with chronic sleepless nights would lead to feelings of depression for many.
The emotional reaction you've had to these experiences sounds normal albeit troublesome and I would imagine intensely painful at times as well.
Therapy can help prioritize what is the most impactful issue you are grappling with.
I find in therapy that when the central issue is revealed, understood, processed, and understood again in its current context, many other areas of the person's internal experience improve.
It sounds as though something has prevented you from seeking help from a counselor in the past, and it sounds as though you are more seriously considering it now.
Therapy helps and it can help you when you're ready.
Thank you for sharing your history.
You do not have too many issues to address in counseling.
It will help to prioritize what you would like to work on first in therapy.
Your therapist will create a treatment plan with you, which can always be changed while working together.
Therapy is a process in working towards your best life, and you deserve it.
Not at all!
Whatever issues you might have you can bring to the therapy room.
Remember therapy is about YOU, not your therapist.
You bring whatever you need to bring to the table.
Keep in mind these issues are likely related.
Remember you are a holistic being, more than just the sum of the parts.
Just like any system, when you move something in one area, things start changing in other areas as well.
Talk to your therapist to decide goals for counseling and establish priorities, and ENJOY THE RIDE!
Growing, flourishing, and finally letting go of what hurts can be a beautiful and exciting process.
You absolutely do not have "too many issues" for counseling.
Your reaching out to ask this question shows you have a resilient spirit.
Also, your happy marriage can be a support and strength to you as you embark on a counseling journey.
I would recommend that you find a counselor who specializes in trauma, sexual trauma and/or EMDR (a type of therapy that is proven to have a strong impact on healing from trauma).
Good luck!
I don't think you have too many issues for counseling.
If a client came to me for help with the same issues that you have listed here I would first want them to meet with their doctor to get a physical to rule out any biological causes to your depression, anxiety, and insomnia.
I would work with you on deciding which of these issues to tackle first.
I usually suggest starting with the issue that is easiest.
Reading through your symptoms I might choose anxiety to start with since you are in the early stages of it.
I like to give my client skills they can use right away, so I would focus on teaching you breathing exercises to manage the anxiety as well as cognitive restructuring so that when an anxious thought pops up you can talk yourself through it.
Once you felt that you had some control over the anxiety I'd start to work on some of your other concerns, but I would seek your input on what you felt like might be good to work on next.
My gut is that some of these issues would be resolved as you worked on others.
For example as you worked on your anxiety and began to process your trauma and as you began to work on self care and getting more sleep - your self esteem would probably improve.
I encourage you to meet with a therapist and ask them how they might be able to help you.
These are just some thoughts that came up for me on how I might help someone with the same or similar symptoms.
The way it goes is that all your issues are connected.
Once you work on one issue it will have a positive effect on all areas.
Slowly each issue is addressed and actually less issues will need to be addressed directly since resolving one helps your overall wellness.
So no, you do not have too many issues.
Don't give up.
Get help now and see how your life can change for the better.
I think this is a very common question that people who have never been to counseling before have.
There is a lot of anxiety in going to counseling for the first time.
This is normal.
In answer to your question, the answer is an absolute NO!
An important thing to remember about getting counseling is that it is a courageous first step towards hope and healing.
Getting help is like training to run a marathon, it is not a sprint.
You have shared a lot of issues that you are dealing with from your past, that are now negatively impacting your present, but I believe that in getting the right kind of help and support, none of them are impossible to overcome.
Part of the therapeutic process is defining and prioritizing therapy goals.
In collaboration with you, as a client, a therapist is there to help you with this process in determining what you would like to work on first.
Not getting counseling, based on the history you have shared, has the potential to put you more at risk for mental and physical health issues.
You are already seeing this happen as you begin to experience new symptoms, namely your anxiety.
In therapy, you will gain understanding and insight, as well as learn skills and strategies to manage the symptoms you are experiencing.
In conclusion, I would encourage you to reach out to a licensed counselor who has experience in treating trauma, grief/loss and will address shame.
These are three areas that I have found that gets to the core issues that are contributing to your depression and anxiety.
I believe you can get the help you need to find hope and healing.
Best of luck to you!
Hello, I'm so glad you decided to take the first step in opening a conversation first.
Deciding to go to therapy can sometimes be difficult for some, but with the right therapist, healing is possible and obtainable, even with what you've described.
To answer your question, no you do not have too many issues to go to counseling.
You've been through a lot and have been strong and at times it's helpful to have someone else to help you through it.
What I would say is to be sure and find a therapist who is experienced in sexual abuse and trauma overall.
But you absolutely do not have too many issues for counseling.
Please feel free to ask any other questions you may have regarding your situation and I hope you find the therapist you're looking for, there are many great ones out there.
Many of the issues you're experiencing may be tied together from the trauma.
Not at all my dear. Human beings are complex creatures, and in my opinion, our issues interconnect in a very nuanced web between our levels of being (for example, mind, body, and spirit).
Everything you bring up affects all three.
The truly beautiful thing about the human body is that when you begin to work on one, the others improve as well!
I would encourage you to seek out a counselor who's style and approach speaks to you and start with whichever issue feels most pressing to you.
A skilled therapist will flow with you at your own pace and make recommendations to other professionals (physicians, holistic practitioners, EMDR specialists for trauma etc) as needed to complement the psychotherapy work you're doing with him or her to help you find the total healing you seek.
I wish you well on your journey!
Everyone has topics to discuss when they start therapy.
There is no correct number of topics.
youSometimes people go to therapy for one specific area of their life.
Not everyone has the time or interest to utilize therapy just when a significant topic arises in their life.
Since you are one person, no matter how many or few topics you would like to address in therapy, all the topics relate to you.
Possibly the result of your therapy will be more transformational than if you talked only on one topic.
Lucky you, to be on the cusp of clearing and resolving many vulnerabilities at once.
You will feel brand new by the time you finish your therapy work!
1) An awareness of their own incompetence and inexperience with events in your life;2) An awareness of how the body, mind, emotions, spirit, and others all intertwine and activate one another;3) How to work to use these connections to have you improve your experience,Oh yeah, and there's some listening in there, as well.
Here is a list of skills I use every session, and a short explanation of what they are:Reflecting: Paraphrasing what clients have said so that they know you understand themValidating: Helping clients to know that their point of view is valuable and rationalClient-centered talk: Maintaining focus on the client in therapy sessions, rather than a therapist talking about themselvesAttending: Nonverbal or verbal cues that indicate I am listening to a client (nodding, leaning in, affirmations)Reframing: Helping a client to see a problematic behavior or situation in a different way (usually only works well after they feel heard and understood).
I think that the most important skill a good counselor has is the ability to empathize (whether that be natural empathy, or trained, empathy is essential) A good counselor also knows the difference between identifying with their client, and empathizing with their client.
An ability to not bring in our own baggage (we all have baggage and most are "wounded healers") into our work, as it's not about us.
If it is brought in, it should be in only a way that can help a client.
And to listen,specifically to what the client is needing.
To be non-judgemental, know who they themselves are, be able to step forward and ask questions with ease and grace into painful emotional areas.
Also to respect human difference in accomplishing basic life tasks and everyday living.
There are typically three reasons why therapy is terminated:1) Client has met therapy goals 2) Client is not progressing3) Therapist is not a good fit for clientIn order to properly assess whether therapy is helping and what progress is being made, the therapist needs to have ways of consistently checking in with clients sessions-by-session to determine what is helping, what isn't, and where the client is at in relation to their original therapy goals.
When a client has met their goals, that is a good time to end counselling sessions unless the client has new goals or simply wants to check-in periodically to make sure that they are still on track (sometimes referred to as relapse prevention).
When a client is not progressing, and feedback has been taken and attempts have been made to make the therapy more helpful for the client but to no avail, than it is considered unethical to continue to work with the client.
In these circumstances, referring out to another therapist who may be a better fit is a good idea.
Hello. The end of the counselor/client relationship is one of mutual respect and engagement.
Counseling sessions can end for any number of reasons.
Among them are the client's inability to make forward progress in therapy; the clinician's inability to help the client (for a variety of reasons); a mutually agreed upon time frame for a number of sessions to be provided; or the financial challenges of the client who decides that they need to put their resources elsewhere.
In this last case, a counselor should never cancel sessions with a client simply on the basis of the client's inability to pay.
That is traditionally seen as an unethical practice.
Other arrangements can be made to provide care to the client, which in itself should be paramount.
When the client and therapist decide that services are done, it is best if there is at least one or two more sessions to allow a case file review to occur, and to bring an appropriate psychological sense of closure to the client (and vicariously to the clinician as well, those this is perhaps not as important).
This transition gives both a sense of having reached the end of a journey,rather than some abrupt departure from it.
(An abrupt ending in therapy can have a varying level of impact both emotionally and psychologically on the client and therapist).
Sometimes the closure of therapy is the result of a program of therapy being formally completed, in which there is a mutually known (albeit perhaps approximate) date of when that program will be finished.
In this case, the client is likely feeling that impending closure and has time to prepare mentally and emotionally from a place of being the client in therapy, to a place of healing, growth and situational resolution.
I have always worked in therapy with the following slogan (if you will), that I learned years ago during graduate school: "Not every therapist is good for every client, and not every client is good for every therapist.
It is perhaps one of the most important guiding views I hold in working with clients.
The therapeutic relationship is driven by mutuality - the desire of the client to get better at living life, and the therapist's desire to truly see the client heal and grow.
When there is a block in this process from either side that prevents that synergy from occurring, the relationship that should be established may not be able to form.
Or, if already formed, may at some point be unable to move forward.
In these instances, referring the client to another type of service or clinician is appropriate.
Usually, this can be seen pretty quickly by either party, though sometimes it is not always clear.
Ultimately, the client and counselor need to work together to discover if the needs of the client (which is paramount) are being met in the therapeutic engagement with their current counselor, or if other arrangements need to be made to go elsewhere.
If both are observant in this process, they can work together to maintain that sacred space and continue to reach the goals that have been set.
Eventually, therapy will end, but hopefully based on the client's successful journey to the place where they wanted to go, and thus opening the next chapters of their life to a space that is more whole and brighter.
Hopefully both the client and counselor would together decide when to terminate counseling sessions.
It's really helpful for the client to leave counseling with a solid sense of what he or she has accomplished in counseling, so it can be a good idea to spend some time acknowledging that in the last session or sessions.
Sometimes, however, a client has needs beyond the scope of the counselor's expertise.
That's a good time for a conversation about those needs and ideas of how best to meet them, whether by adding in care with an additional mental health professional or transferring care entirely to a new mental health provider.
There are different reasons why a counselor may seek to terminate with a client and these will each have different processes by which the counselor will come to that decision.
Here are a few examples.
The counselor may determine that the client's needs are outside what the counselor is competent to be able to work with.
A person may have come to the counselor talking about a particular issue but either when they first met or as counseling progressed, it may become clear that the issue is in fact something different or that there is an additional related issue.
If that issue is outside the competence of the counselor, the counselor should look for alternatives, the most common of which would be to terminate and refer.
Beyond clinical issues, this could also come up around particular other related facts, such as the culture of the client or linguistic issues.
This could also be the choice of the counselor if they know someone that they feel would be a better match for the client's issues.
Another reason for discharge (and possible referral) would be if the relationship does not seem to be a good fit.
No counselor is the right person to work with everyone.
If the right level of connection is not happening, the counselor will often look first at what they are doing, might talk about it with the client and ultimately will admit that things don't seem to be working to allow the desired therapeutic process to work.
A similar process would be followed if the counselor determined that the client might not yet be ready for counseling as evidenced by lack of engagement such as frequent cancellations, not doing any agreed on work between sessions, showing up late or being really guarded in session.
The easiest situation to decide on is when a person has met their counseling goals and have nothing new that they are working on.
While this is the easiest one to determine, it is also probably the hardest one for the counselor as they may be like the client in not wanting the relationship to come to an end.
However, counselors know that this is part of the process.
They will also determine this by regularly reviewing the treatment plan or by sending in the sessions that the work has come to an end.
This type of termination maybe final or may be with the intent that the client will return later to address other things that have been identified but for which they are not ready to move into.
All of these (and other) situations involves the counselor being open to the relationship ending, to monitoring how things are going, then engaging in self reflection, possibly talking with the client and then coming to a conclusion on which the counselor follows through.
From the very beginning of counseling sessions I emphasize that the work will and must end at some point.
In counseling there is an arc to the process.
A beginning, middle and end.
I am always digging, searching and exploring.
There comes a point where things come to there natural ending.
I always leave an opening for continuing counseling in the future.
At least as a check in.
For most: When the money/insurance runs out.
When best: When the job is done, and you're feeling much better.
"To be able to identify a clear ending to a counseling relationship, we must have a clear understanding of the goals and limitations of treatment.
Usually, during the initial evaluation, I identify my client's short term and long term therapy goals.
As therapy progress, we verify goals on a monthly to a quarterly basis, depending on the frequency of the appointments.
Once the therapy goals have been met, there is a closing session, the counseling relationship is ended, and the client can stop attending sessions.
In some cases, the client can also establish new goals and determine if I am a good fit for their therapy needs or if they need a new provider, in which case I provide multiple referrals.
The counseling relationship could also end due to other factors like noncompliance= when a client is not committed to the agreed treatment process, or when the client's or a counselor violates the counseling relationship.
Either the counselor or the client is able to end counseling.
It is usually time to end counseling sessions when it is clear to both the client and the counselor that therapeutic goals have been reached and enough improvement has been made that the client can continue without that support.
There are exceptions to this rule, but for the most part this is when counselors begin termination.
For some clients, this is an easy process that marks the achievements they have made in working through their emotions and difficulties.
For some other clients, however, this is a difficult process in which they are losing a valuable support and are understandably anxious about what life will be like without the frequent meetings.
Ultimately, termination is different for everyone, and there are many ways that termination can be healthy and helpful.
As a therapist who believes in client self-determination above most other elements of the process, I want to as much as possible leave it up to the client to determine when they are finished.
In the case of a termination because a client's distress has resolved, I might periodically check in with the client about how therapy has been going, and if we want to re-evaluate where we are.
The more unfortunate situation would come about if I felt that I wasn't the best fit for the client.
I would offer that in words, and ideas of therapists (with names) of who I thought might be a better fit and why.
It still is up to the client whether to continue, however should they want to keep seeing me, a part of the work would be about that want (to see someone who professionally doesn't believe they can help as much as someone else)I also find it perplexing when I hear a client (or on a personal level) tell me that their therapist said they "didn't need therapy.
I don't know that I buy into that scenario all that much, because I do believe that yes, not everyone NEEDS therapy, but that everyone CAN benefit from therapy and I don't believe it is the therapist's job to deter someone from ever seeking out help of any kind.
Ideally, termination should be a mutual process.
It's not that the therapist kicks the client out at some point and says, "Okay, you're done.
Rather, over time the client will decrease the frequency with which he/she comes to session so that it may start off as weekly, then decrease to biweekly, then perhaps once every three weeks, then once/month and so on.
Throughout this process, the therapist and client should have had regular check ins about progress toward goals.
If the client feels good about where he/she is in life, he/she might decide to suspend therapy for now.
That being said, the therapist should make it very clear that if the client ever decided to return for "maintenance" therapy or a check in, he/she would always be welcome.
There is no hard and fast rule to ending or a particular time period in which it must end.
What matters most is that the client feels good about it and knows that the therapist will always be there should he/she wish to return.
For a therapist, deciding to end counseling sessions or terminate working with a client is a thoughtful and intentional decision.
One that is not entered into lightly.
While there are many considerations counselors take into account, to help answer this question, I'll offer an example of two areas that counselor's take into consideration when ending counseling sessions:Does the client need different or more specialized care than the current counselor can provide?
This requires the counselor to determine whether referring the client to another therapist or health care provider is needed.
And, has the therapeutic relationship reached treatment goal(s)?
While this question is specific to the counselor, I'd like to also add that a client, at any time, can end counseling.
In general, I usually let the client decide when this should occur, sometimes with some clients it will be a joint agreement, but even in that case it should weigh mostly on what the client feels.
In short, therapy ends when you feel your done.
C.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
There are several reasons for a counselor to decide to end counseling.
A major reason to end counseling is if the counselor feels that he or she does not have the skills or experience to work with the client.
This may happen during the intake process or after working with the client for some time.
If the clinician feels that the client is not benefitting from the therapy, it is ethical to suggest that the client terminate the therapy.
The process of termination must not injure the client and, if necessary, the clinician may need to refer the client to other treatment modalities.
Another reason to terminate working with a client is if the client needs a higher level of care.
If the client has a crisis or is at risk of hurting himself or someone else, he or she may need a higher level of care.
In this circumstance, the clinician may need to involve outside services such as a crisis unit.
A third reason to terminate with a client is if the clinician feels that he or she cannot remain professional with the client relationship.
For example, if the issues that the client is working on bring up something significant for the clinician and the clinician feels that he is unable to separate that from the professional relationship.
In this instance, the clinician should refer the client to another therapist.
Finally, if the client has reached her goals for therapy and no longer needs treatment, the clinician and client should terminate treatment.
Counseling ends when the client has received the maximum benefit from the therapist.
Even if the therapist believes the client is not making progress, the client may feel they are improving and receiving a benefit.
And the therapist may see a benefit and the client does not.
It is best to have ongoing dialogue with the client to determine when termination is appropriate.
"Goodbyes can be hard.
Chances are most of the goodbyes you have experienced in your life have been difficult.
Saying goodbye to a therapist can be different.
It can be an opportunity to create a healthy ending in a positive relationship in your life.
If you work with a therapist who is skilled, then saying goodbye can be just as transformative as the therapy itself.
It is an ending of the relationship as it existed.
It is reality cold and stark.
Therapy should end when a client does not need further assistance, is not receiving any benefit from therapy, or might be harmed by continuing to work with a particular therapist.
In the best case scenario the decision to move on from therapy and‚ our goodbyes happens when both the therapist and the client feel like the client is ready to move on and move.
up!
Ending the therapeutic relationship should actually be worked on from the very first session.
What I mean by that is, there should be an understanding that the work we do together will have an ending and that is a good thing because it means the client has gained the skills to continue working on themselves independently.
So the first session I have with clients usually outlines a plan where the end goal is discussed and we both have an understanding of the skills the client wants to learn or what they hope to achieve.
Now sometimes there are situations where the therapist ends the relationship and the client may take.
that personally, it is hard when any relationship ends and it might bring up feelings of sadness, and fear or abandonment.
Any good therapist will end the relationship based on what is right for the client.
What are some situations where a therapist might end the relationship?
If the situation the client is dealing with is out of the therapist's scope of practice, the therapist may end the relationship and refer the client to someone else.
This is in the client's best interest.
Another reason a therapist might end the relationship is that the therapist is in a place in her life which prevents her from being objective and helpful.
A therapist who is going through a painful divorce may have difficulty working with a couple that considering divorce.
A good therapist may see that their judgement may be clouded and want to refer the client to see someone else.
This is good practice and helps the client.
If a client is actively suicidal or actively using substances then the therapist may end the relationship and refer out for a higher level of care.
The client may need to be hospitalized or may need an inpatient substance abuse treatment program.
Therapy may be terminated while they are being treated and may continue after the intensive program is completed.
Ending therapy should be a time for connection and bringing together accomplishments, or reviewing the next important step the client needs to take.
It should not be an experience of abandonment.
A skilled therapist will help a client gain a new perspective on closure.
For some clients, it may be the one time in their lives when they get a clean ending in a healthy relationship and they get to feel a sense of.
control on creating that ending.
Good luck to you!
In the best case scenario, it's a mutual discussion and decision.
If not, I've had the discussion initiated both ways, by me, when I sense the client has gone has far as they want, by lack of interest in accepting or completing homework assignments, missing or cancelling appointments, usually at the last minute, lack of participation during sessions.
Client initiates by asking me pointed questions about why the need for homework assignments, by forgetting their calendar, or their checkbook by suggesting that we make appointments over longer intervals (once a week to once a month, for example).
I rarely have had to terminate a working relationship--that's why I don't charge for the first visit, so we know if we are a good fit before we start working together.
Then I periodically ask whether the client feels we are making progress, moving in the right direction, talking about the most relevant issues etc.
In my therapy practice the decision to end therapy is mutually made together with the patient.
Otherwise, the person can end up with a sense of tremendous rejection and abandonment.
The way you'll both know therapy is coming to a close is that the discussion will feel lighter and move easily.
The person's mood will be better, they will smile more, sit in their seat in a more relaxed way, look more at ease, take better care of their appearance.
One of the ways to end therapy is to gradually decrease the frequency of the sessions.
Sometimes people who are in my practice start to come each three weeks, then monthly, then every three months.
This gives a sense of security, friendliness, and casualness to the therapy, and de-medicalizes it as though the person was treated for a medical symptom and the symptom stops completely one day.
Talk therapy is about life and life problems usually end gradually.
I end my therapy in a way which mirrors the life process in which many interaction and situation problems show their effects gradually and show different effects over time.
Hi there,There are a number of reasons why a therapeutic relationship might end including, but not limited to the client reaching their goals, the client reaching a place of acceptance where they wish to remain or even a breach within the relationship.
The last aspect should likely be taken to supervision in order to be fully processed.
All of these things could happen, and usually happen organically (again, except for the last example).
Your question, however, was about the counselor ending treatment.
This is a bit more difficult and can be very nerve-wracking.
It may be beneficial to take this with you to supervision, as well.
It's important to understand why you feel the need to end or terminate with the client, as well.
Do you feel that they would be better suited for another therapist, have they achieved their goals or is it something else?
In regular, open-ended sessions, I try to make a point of checking in with the clients fairly frequently.
In these check-ins, I use the time to ask the client how they feel about the sessions and if there is anything they wish to focus on more astutely.
I also ask if they have any immediate goals that they would like to prioritize.
In goal-oriented sessions, I check in more frequently to ensure that both the client and I remain focused and, should they wish to shift their focus, that they recognize it is part of my responsibilities to make sure we move back to the desired goal.
Often, especially in longer term therapeutic relationships, we as clinicians can see that the client has reached their goal, however they are apprehensive about ending therapy.
This is actually a great place to go with them; why would they feel unable to handle issues in their external or internal environment without you?
Often, having this open discussion can increase empowerment and mastery.
That said, it could also highlight other issues which the client may have been apprehensive about going into within therapy and now, as the relationship seems to be ending, feels more confident in bringing these up.
In the case where the relationship is a toxic one, terminating with a client may be the best option for both of you.
It's a difficult conversation, but recall that part of the role of the therapist is to model that these discomforts can be managed.
I hope that this brief response can assist you going forward!
This is a question that is very specific to each person.
There are definitely some variables, but I can give you some general ideas for when counseling might end:When a client has met all of their goals, at least to a degree when they feel that they no longer need to work on them with the assistance of a counselorSometimes a decision is made that a client is no longer benefiting from counseling at a certain timeSometimes clients have to remain in counseling in order to receive medication.
This depends on agency policy, but sometimes it is a requirement.
If the medication is necessary and cannot be prescribed by a primary care physician, frequency of sessions is usually decreased greatlyI'm not sure why you are asking this question, but it is also something that is often discussed at the beginning of treatment.
Oftentimes "discharge goals" change as treatment progresses because more is known about clients, their goals, changes in their goals, and many other things.
Changes are normal, but your counselor probably has discharge goals in mind, at least generally, from the beginning.
I strongly encourage you to ask about it!
Dang right!
Heh heh, and correct me if I'm wrong, and, if we are truly professionals, we should be able to handle even the most bumptious of folks, now shouldn't we?
;)It's like a mechanic who knows his way around every inch of an engine, he'll know what to do, heh heh heh,.
Yes, just like some relationships outside of our work are more difficult than others.
But, I would not say that the "client is more difficult," rather the dynamic between myself and the client, which constitutes a relationship, might feel more difficult.
And that's okay (sometimes things that feel like the most challenging end up with profound shifts and outcomes) It is often helpful to understand difficulties that exist, because they can illuminate for a therapist something with which a client might be struggling, and when it takes place in the therapy space, it can be experienced and then worked through.
It's hard to necessarily say what some difficulties are that a counselor might encounter, but I would say that not showing up, like in any relationship, is one of the hardest things for me.
And not just physically not showing up (though that is certainly frustrating), but not being open to the work is a form of not showing up.
While not every client is as "motivated to change," it's helpful to my therapist-client relationships that the client try.
It might be hard for them, but the effort even to say "this is tough for me" can go a long way in these kinds of relationships.
Each counselor will have their own list of "difficulties" in doing therapy work with a client.
Even if clinically trained similarly, since counselors are human then their response to your question will reflect their unique differences as humans.
On my list is when the emotional pain I feel for someone describing some type of injustice or unfair treatment by another, feels very deep.
Sometimes I feel like avoiding the pain I feel by asking questions which will steer the conversation away from the painful areas the client talks about.
What in fact is necessary to clear out their pain, is to step further into so as to realize their emotional pain isn't greater than who they are.
Yes, Counseling provides an area for people to speak to an unbiased professional about their concerns to address their unique needs.
While length of time varies, counseling is a process and can be done from as little as one session to multiple sessions.
Counseling provide a safe, non-judgmental, empathetic atmosphere from a professional helper provide the service.
Hi!
Great question.
I believe counseling does help people!
Of course, I am a therapist, so I would think that!
Seriously - I think therapy and counseling allow us to understand ourselves, our motivations and the things that bring us happiness and discontent.
Therapy can create opportunities to try new skills and enhance positive attributes that are already present in someone.
I like to think of therapy as an unbiased "aerial view" of our lives.
Someone outside can often help us notice things we might otherwise miss.
Hope this helps!
Counseling provides a safe environment for people to explore the beliefs about the challenges in life.
The various types(modalities/techniques) of counseling serve as guides for specific individual's personal journeys.
Yes, counseling helps a lot of people, especially when there is a good rapport between the counselor and their client.
Knowing your counselor is someone who is really on your side and wants to see you grow past your difficulties into a healthy, happy, successful life is more important than what kind of counseling method they use.
If you are looking for a counselor, take your time and be sure you feel heard and respected as well as challenged to grow.
Counseling definitely helps people!
I have seen so many positive changes from those willing to engage in the counseling process.
Having a safe place to openly share concerns with an objective listener really is therapeutic and can make a huge difference in your life.
Many times people don't feel heard or validated by people in their lives, counseling call help validate your feelings and help you become more self-aware.
You can learn new skills to better manage your life as well.
I find the people who get the most out of it are the ones most willing to make changes.
Hi there!
Thank you for your question.
It's a great question and one that many people want to know the answer to.
The short answer is, YES!
Counseling can be very helpful to people struggling with many different things.
There has been a lot of research conducted to prove that counseling is an effective way to help people with mental health concerns, life stressors, and many other issues.
In addition, there are many people who would tell you that counseling made a positive, profound impact on their lives.
Indeed, some would tell you that counseling saved their lives.
Now, not everyone would tell you that counseling helped.
But when you think about it, there are many medical treatments for a variety of healthcare issues that also do not help everyone.
So, is counseling guaranteed?
No.
But, it is something that is worth trying if someone is suffering or is just wanting some perspective or support.
Also, there is many different types of counseling.
Different counselors have different styles and have different training for various issues.
This means that you are likely to find someone who has a good style and expertise in an area that you want to work on.
If you don't know where to go, I suggest contacting your state's counseling association.
They can help.
I think the real question that most people have is, how?
How does it help?
That question is a bit more complicated, because there are many different models of counseling/therapy that work in different ways.
What I can tell you is that, regardless of the model of counseling, the relationship between counselor and client is the most important factor.
I don't mean that the relationship has to be ooowy goowy, but it does have to be one where there is trust and openness.
A counselor will spend time to make sure that you are working together as a team toward a common goal.
If you go to counseling and you don't feel this is the case, tell your counselor.
An ethical counselor will welcome your feedback.
I hope this is helpful, please ask more questions!
I hope some colleagues add some other thoughts, too.
Be well,Robin J.
Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC.
Counselling offers a number of ways to help one to improve their situation.
For some, this process can take a very long, winding path of self-discovery, while, for others, they are seeking a purposeful, solution-based way to approach and manage a specific problem.
It's important to remember that there are different styles of therapy, some of which will work great with some, but poorly with others, specifically to help those to decide how they wish to move forward.
I often recommend speaking with a number of therapists before beginning treatment to find out more about how they practice, in order to make sure their style aligns with your goals.
On a more specific note, there is myriad research out in the world that indicates both counselling and medication can have an affect on changing our moods and behaviours.
However, medication is not an effective way of treating the problem, as it treats the symptoms of that problem (increased anxiety, lowered mood) and research has shown that the most effective route for better mental health care comes from a combination of counselling and medication.
There are multiple ways that counseling helps people.
The most basic is that it gives you someone to talk to about and through what you are facing.
It is better than a friend because this is a space for your stuff and you get to focus on what you need and don't have to worry about the other side.
This is also a place where you do not have to worry about how else the other person is involved in the situation.
Beyond this basic level, a counselor will have expertise they can bring in terms of how people, including you, can effectively deal with this kind of situation.
The counselor may also be aware of connections that you would not otherwise see.
A good counselor will also recognize if and when you need other help or support in the situation.
Why wouldn't you benefit from having someone walk with you in your journey to peace and wholeness.
A counselor can do a few things that can be helpful:1) Give you a space where you can explore what's in your head without worrying about being judged or punished.
2) Help you better understand yourself, your choices, your motivations.
3) Give you tools and information you can use to help create change in your life.
Ultimately, though, it's up to the client to take action, because action is what creates change.
So, a counselor can't create change, but they can facilitate and support it.
No, not really;And it's impossible for it to, anyway;And, this is isn't some sort of "you did it all yourself" kind of blather;Because:1) In most outcomes, if a man or woman simply does nothing and waits, most of the time, they get better, (there are reasons to that);2) In most therapy sessions, approximately 92% (give or take, per study) of all outcomes--be they positive or negative--occur due to factors SOLELY WITHIN the man or woman seeking therapy to begin with;3) The word "THERAPY" does not imply cure, but implies treatment (suppression);4) Truly, a proper "therapist" will be able to spot the problem quickly, recommended proper protocols quickly, and coach to completion.
5) Even if we PRESUME generosity, the "therapist" really doesn't matter much (maybe 8%); it really all is in you,Be well, man,.
You are asking a room full of counselors, and so I am going to guess that we may be a bit biased.
My answer is this: sometimes.
Many people benefit from counseling and when counseling works those benefits can show up through positive improvements in your moods, making more choices that align with your values, working through stuff, and a general improved sense of self.
Sometimes, for a variety of reasons, a counselor, the approach they are using and the person do not match up and when that happens sometimes counseling does not help.
It is very important to find the right counselor for you.
Ideally this should be someone you feel a level of trust and connection with who is also using a style that you feel confident in.
Research has shown that these aspects (what is called the 'therapeutic alliance') along with shared goals between the client and counselor give counseling the best chance at being effective.
Counseling is a collaborative process which involves the development of a confidential, unique, therapeutic, helping relationship.
This relationship is unlike any other as the counselor will act as a facilitator in helping you better understand yourself, the world around you, your feelings, and your behaviors.
As is the case with most things in life, there are both benefits and risks while participating in counseling.
Counseling may improve your ability to relate with others, provide a clearer understanding of yourself, your values, and your goals, and it often helps relieve stress immediately.
Along with these benefits, counseling will also involve discussing the unpleasant parts of your life, and you may experience uncomfortable feelings during these moments.
But remember that using the awareness of one's pain can aid the healing process and result in better relationships with yourself and others.
Yes, counseling can help people.
How this happens is bc the counselor can guide the person or couple into deeper areas of their thoughts and emotions than the person or partners would typically avoid or not even realize they are avoiding.
Also, a counseling session offers emotional safety because the therapist will intervene with thoughtful questions if someone's strong emotions overwhelm them.
This is different than in everyday circumstances.
When someone feels overwhelmed by their own or someone else's feelings, there is no one who asks reflective questions.
Last, people get better in therapy because often therapy is the first time the person has a chance to trust someone with their confidential information and know this information will always be protected.
Experts have defined counseling as a healing relationship that helps patients by providing a space to vent, process and receive unconditional support.
Many of my clients have expressed that they are able to find their own answers during the session, because they have the right person listening to them.
Some thought they were safe sharing their concerns with friends or relatives who are good listeners, but later they felt ashamed or guilty about what they shared.
So why people should share private issues with a Counselor (a stranger)?
Confidentiality is the key word.
A good counseling relationship should provide a space where people are able to share their deepest thoughts and feelings, allowing themselves to be vulnerable and explore those emotions that are difficult to share without implications.
Beyond the ability to provide a safe place, counselors are trained to identify symptoms and behavioral patterns, and can provide insight on how develop coping mechanisms to improve their life.
I am a License Professional Counselor working on a private practice in Puerto Rico: Latitude Counseling, and also I'm licensed in Texas, where I provide theletherapy services.
I love this question!
Some people shy away from counseling because they think since they already talk about how they feel to their relatives or friends they shouldn't need a counselor.
However, if you are having a difficult time, counseling can be beneficial in helping you move forward and get your life back on track.
Counseling is not like the kind of talking we do to people we know.
For one, your counselor does not have a history with you and has no expectations of how you will act and what you will do.
In that way, counselors come to a session without judgement and expectation.
This gives you the platform to truly explore your thoughts and feelings.
A counselor can also help you understand your motivation and help you integrate your past experiences and recommend coping skills that can help you if you are feeling overwhelmed by your emotions.
Over time, as you work with a counselor you will get feedback and also be able to share new insights.
The work you do is based on you and where you are at.
Oftentimes, when we talk to friends they bring their own agenda to a conversation, and while they mean well they may offer solutions that work for them and not you.
A counselor will help you uncover the solutions that work best for you and help you find the motivation to follow through with your plan.
Best of luck to you!
Hello. Yes, counseling can be beneficial to many people.
One of the effective components to effective therapy, is when the client becomes willing to participate in the counseling.
I don't mean just show up and listen to the counselor for 45-50 minutes, but also that the client themselves opens up and shares with the counselor the issues that brought them to counseling in the first place.
This requires you to be vulnerable, capable of moving past your protective measures of showing the best of yourself, and allowing the counselor to see the sides of you that likely are not as favorable.
Therapy works when you and the counselor engage openly, honestly, and with mutual trust that both of you will work for common goals - your improvement of self.
It does take time, and there are no quick fixes (usually), so be prepared to invest in yourself and explore the dark places.
You'll thank yourself later, knowing that you are more connected to yourself and might even feel more whole after the process.
Be well.
"I believe that counseling (and finding a GOOD therapist) will be of significant help when the individual seeking therapy desires change, improvement, and overall growth.
Most counseling involves homework and a level of commitment outside of session that also contributes to resolution of problems and an ability to cope with stresses in a productive way.
Here are some of the key ways that therapy can help.
Helps to define the problem and gain a clearer understanding of where it originates.
Many people seek counseling because of symptoms they are experiencing.
These can include feeling sad, increased sleeping, substance use, panic attacks, self-harm, isolating one's self, academic decline Often times, people are not aware of what is causing these symptoms.
Having a therapist to help guide and explore why the symptoms are occurring and where they come from will give individuals increased insight and awareness into their problems.
Allows for a safe outlet to vent.
Not everyone likes to share their problems with close friends or family members.
Maybe they don't want others to know of their flaws.
Maybe they don't want to burden others with their problems.
Or maybe they just are not comfortable talking about themselves.
And in some situations people do not have the option of talking with someone they know because they have no friends or family.
While talking with those we know can help bring some relief.
It is also nice to talk with someone like a therapist who is objective and emotionally removed from given situations.
Counseling gives a safe outlet in which one can express their personal feelings and thoughts without feeling judged.
Counselors can offer various problem solving solutions.
A good therapist usually will not directly point their client in the direction they need to go.
Counseling is about growth and teaching the client to identify triggers and use effective coping strategies that will bring about emotional and psychological relief.
Counselors will help clients to explore the various options available in given situation, based on the client's needs, wants, and values and will help them to choose the option that best fits with their desired outcome.
Gives one the tools needed to cope with current and future problems.
Many individuals that seek therapy have never learned good coping strategies.
Perhaps they did not have parents or caretakers to.
model productive ways to cope or maybe the symptoms they are suffering from are overbearing and take away the energy needed to cope.
Different diagnoses require different tools; however some are beneficial for any problem and any individual.
These include but are not limited to relaxation techniques, breathing exercises, development of healthy routines, using mindfulness, improving communication skills, and recognizing and changing maladaptive thought patterns.
A good counselor will teach clients how to use these tools, will often practice them during session, and will assign homework for further practice and mastery of the skills.
Counseling allows us to have a sacred space, a space that is set apart from the outside world, it is a space of non-judgement and exploration.
Being that the universe is not made for us and that the the world tends to be a fairly untamed place at times, this sacred space allows us to explore ourselves.
It allows for greater reflection upon our attitudes, our behaviors and our feelings.
Imagine if you will a small goldfish swimming around the usual fish tank, although I dont attest to know what a goldfish thinks, I would imagine he does not see the world outside of him, he only sees the small fishbowl, oblivious to the outside world, when one comes into the counseling room, one is trying to gain insight that was not previously there.
Remember the observer affect, one cannot truly act objectively with the world, we are in a dynamic relationship with life, it reacts to us and we to it, the time in the counseling room allows us to gain an understanding that is beyond the normal limits, allowing us to see what was before hidden, often times in plain sight.
Counseling can go a long way in improving your mental health.
Counseling helps you to get new perspective on your life and problems.
Talking about your problems with a counselor gives them substances and something to get a handle on.
Talking about your problems gives you a chance look at your situation from a new angle to help solve your problems.
The counselor is a neutral listener that can help give direction and answers to your needs.
Counseling can help you solve your problems but also can set up a plan for the future.
Counseling can help you to deal with things before they get out of hand.
Give counseling a try.
A lot of things affect how helpful counseling is for each person, including at least these things, but often many others:The therapeutic alliance (this refers to the bond, connection, or trust between the client and the counselor).
What the person is coming in to work on, how motivated the person is to work on, what it is they would like to change.
Some people also ask how counseling is different from friendship.
There is a similarity in the sense that hopefully both counselors and friends will listen to what you are experiencing, but that is really the end of the similarities.
Some differences are: Counselors are specifically trained to phrase questions or statements in ways that help you to gain more awareness of one could be contributing to what it is that you are trying to change, both within yourself, and possibly with people around youCounselors have experience in using lots of different types of techniques (for example, focusing on finding solutions, looking at how the present situation could relate to your past, using role-plays or examples in session to help you learn new skills or ways of looking at situations, and probably hundreds of other things)Counselors are taught to look at what you are experiencing and ask questions about other related ideas that you may not have connected to what you are experiencingThere is a treatment plan in place (usually after the first, second, or third session) so both you and the counselor have an idea of where you would like to go with counseling (what you are hoping to change or learn) and a general idea of a plan for getting to your goalsIn general, I would say the following:Yes, counseling can help people who want something to be different in their livesCounseling is most helpful when the connection between the counselor and the client is strong enough that some trust forms (in other words, not every counselor or technique is helpful for every person)A lot of counselors will talk to you on the phone for a few minutes prior to you coming in for your first appointment to answer any general questions that you may haveIf you are working with a counselor and you feel as though you are not "clicking" or connecting with one another, give it three or four sessions before you change.
Trust is not happening in one hour for most of peopleIf you are working with a counselor and you would like to be getting more or something different out of it, tell the counselor about that because typically modalities can be changed.
Hello. First, I am so sorry you are experiencing these feelings.
They can be intense, I will do my best to offer some suggestions or thoughts that I hope will be helpful to you.
There could be a number of things occurring.
Therapy is a delicate, private decision and I would first like to commend you for the fact that you are not giving up, that you are working to figure this out, and make this work, it sounds like you are engaged and motivated to receive support from a professional,your continued dedication and motivation will take you far.
I would first start by asking if you have discussed this with your therapist, if you feel comfortable enough telling your therapist what is going on, maybe inform the therapist that that you feel nervous and shaky.
I am a firm believer in open communication between the client and therapist as this builds a healthy therapeutic relationship that yields positive outcomes, if this can be obtained and well received.
This isYOUR time for healing and therapy should be a safe, supportive environment to not only process but to seek support and guidance from a professional who can help you move past the barriers.
If you feel you are comfortable and able to speak to your therapist, that would be my first suggestion, is to tell he or she how you are feeling.
If they know then they can help determine the potential cause and allow you to process and move forward.
If this is left un resolved it will be hard for you to move forward.
If you are not comfortable discussing this with your therapist, this may be something to take into consideration and worthy of thinking about: why you are not comfortable speaking to the therapist.
I understand this is difficult.
If I may offer one more suggestion, breathing exercises are very beneficial.
Remind yourself what you are working to achieve, close your eyes in a safe moment and breathe in and out slowly, in slowly through your nose and out through your mouth with pursed lips.
Breathe in for approximately 5-10 seconds, then let it out slowly.
Be sure and do this when you are in private, and feel safe environment.
When you begin, I suggest putting your hand on your stomach, over your belly button to feel yourself actually taking in those deep breaths.
I know it may sound kind of silly but they really work and areincredibly helpful.
We often forget to breathe, especially when we are feeling anxious.
You are supported here and try taking yourself through the above thought process and breathing and practice the breathing several times a day.
I hope this shaky and uneasy feeling eases.
Wishing you the very best!
It can be uncomfortable talking to someone about your life in the great detail that is normally necessary for counseling to be beneficial.
Since you're already going to counseling, congratulations on taking that big, first, stress-inducing step.
Hopefully by now you are starting to feel a little more comfortable with your therapist.
It can be helpful to address this big "elephant in the room" and talk to your therapist about this.
I do my best to help people feel comfortable when they come to counseling, but regardless of how hard we try, sometimes it is just a little hard to get accustomed to.
The good news is, the more you keep at it, the more "normal" it will become.
If you have only been to a couple of sessions, it makes sense that you might still feel apprehensive at first.
Therapy is hard work!
You may be talking about some things that you never talked to anyone about before.
Opening up to stranger can be scary.
After you feel comfortable with your counselor, and trust has built up and you feel understood in session, you should feel more relaxed.
I would encourage you to talk to your counselor about feeling a little shaky.
Sharing what the process is like for you is important in your work.
If you still feel unsure about sharing after several sessions, it is important to take a look at that and try to understand where that may be coming from.
For example, are you and the therapist not a good fit?
But, again if you are just starting out in working together, feeling a little bit nervous makes perfect sense, and I encourage you to give it a bit more time and to talk to your therapist about how you are feeling.
Hi there,Thank you for your question.
It's absolutely ok to feel nervous going to therapy.
I have experienced anxiety going to see my own therapist.
There can be a few reasons why you might feel this way.
First, it is always unnerving to see a person who is a stranger and to share intimate things with that stranger.
You mentioned it has only been a couple of sessions.
Your anxiety might subside as you continue to see your therapist and grow more comfortable with him/her.
Another reason why you might feel particularly nervous is perhaps you are not comfortable sharing things.
As children, we might have bad experiences opening up to others.
Someone might bully or ridicule us, and that experience can stay with us for a long time, making it extra scary to share our intimate feelings and thoughts with others.
If this the case, as you continue with your sessions and have positive interactions with your therapists, this anxiety will subside with time and you will re-learn that it is safe to share.
And the last thought why you might feel the shakes is perhaps you know that you need to talk about some past experiences or memories that are uncomfortable and difficult.
Regardless of the reason, it might help you to bring up your nervousness in your session and share how you feel with your therapist.
Having an open dialogue about your anxiety with your therapist can help you resolve some of that anxiety and built greater trust with your therapist.
Thank you for your question.
It's completely normal and natural to feel nervous before a therapy session.
Many people report having felt this way.
I can't say enough regarding the amount of courage it takes to reach out and attend a therapy session.
For many people, it can take weeks, months, or even years of contemplating whether to see a therapist or not before actually contacting one and attending the first session.
It takes courage to want to work through any struggles you may be having or personal growth you aspire toward.
In your question, you mentioned that you've "gone several times and are still feeling nervous and shaky.
If you feel comfortable with your therapist and it's a good fit for you, I would suggest talking about this with your therapist.
You don't have to struggle each time you have your appointment.
Together, you and your therapist can work toward helping you have a different experience.
Sure, why not!
It's nerve-wracking to go to a man or woman you've never met before and who is a total stranger, that you are paying to take an interest in your life.
You're likely feeling an internal truth about the sessions, the man or woman with you, and the man or woman sitting across from you.
I'd listen to those feelings.
Wouldn't it not be best to go to those around you that do provide comfort and aid, first?
Wouldn't it be better to attend to those of faith around you who have love to offer, first?
Wouldn't it be better to go to your family and loved ones, first?
Might try that; see if your nervousness evaporates,.
What you are experiencing is extremely normal.
Opening up to someone you don't know from a can of paint can elicit some uncomfortable feelings and make you feel shaky.
With time and building trust with your therapist, you will eventually start feeling less apprehensive before sessions.
Consider bringing this up to your therapist as you both can process this experience together and figure out ways of coping with this anxiety before you come into the therapy room.
It's very normal to be nervous going into therapy.
You are being vulnerable and honest, which is always scary, no matter how many times you do it.
The best part about therapy is that the more you go, the more confident you are in your ability to work through those difficult feelings, and while you still may sometimes get nervous, you will have confidence too!
It depends on your definition of "normal"!
I would say that the average client I see feels some level of nervous energy when they come into their sessions, and especially at the beginning.
I think that with clients who I work with that have difficult times in relationships, maybe being able to trust people is tougher for them given their life experiences, the expectation would be that they have a harder time moving through those nerves and feeling more at peace in sessions.
In my opinion, a competent therapist could help you explore where these nerves are actually coming from (talking about yourself, relating to another, something else) I encourage all of my clients to bring up whatever emotions are coming up for them in the moment, as it's helpful to the client to recognize the "present moment" emotion and then being able to process, learn from, and move through to a more peaceful place, if that is what is being sought.
Therapy can feel very weird to begin with - think about it, how often do we go and tell a relative stranger our deepest, darkest thoughts in the rest of our life?
So I think its reasonable to expect a certain level of nerves as you get used to your therapist and to the whole process of talking about yourself and vulnerable topics.
That said, its definitely worth bringing to the attention of your therapist (if you haven't already) to see if there is anything that they can do, or that the two of you can explore together, that might make the process feel less intimidating to you.
It takes a lot of courage to go to therapy.
I have gone myself as a Counselor and know what that feeling is like.
This is normal but hopefully you have become more comfortable with your therapist.
This might be something to bring up to your Therapist and openly discuss (scary to do but its ok) this may even relieve some of your anxiety.
If it continues, you may want to consider trying another therapist as this one may not be the best fit for you.
Therapy does not work overnight, oftentimes it is a lifelong struggle, the therapists job is not to "cure" you or to remove something but rather to make you strong enough to live your life with your own peculiarities and struggles, remember we are human and constantly fallible.
Another important thing to note is that although you go to therapy, that is just a room, most of the magic and work takes place in your real life outside of that room.
Yes, feeling nervous for the first few or several sessions of therapy, is completely normal.
Therapy is an unusual way to have a conversation with someone.
The person is an expert in recognizing and understanding dynamics of human interactions.
For some people the fear is that the therapist knows more about you than you do yourself.
In general terms hopefully your therapist has worked with many other people who've faced problems similar to yours.
In this sense the therapist has a general idea of the basic dynamics you most likely are handling.
No therapist could possibly know your particular details and your particular areas of upset or in what ways you feel unsure of yourself.
Once you start to trust both your own right to tell your particular story and start to also feel that your therapist is listening attentively and cares what you tell the person, your nervousness will start to disappear all on its own.
Good luck in getting the most from your therapy sessions!
It is absolutely normal to be nervous about therapy.
Many people take years to make the decision to start counseling and although it is a safe place to explore feelings, it may be the first time you are facing certain issues.
It takes courage to face issues head on.
Being nervous is part of the process.
The fact that you are continuing to go to therapy sessions despite feeling nervous demonstrates your strength.
Keep it up!
Yes, it is completely normal to feel anxious about therapy.
Therapy often explores topics and feelings that are uncomfortable.
The ultimate goal of therapy is to feel better but the process itself can be uncomfortable.
For some people it's absolutely normal to feel nervous about coming to therapy.
It's sometimes hard to share our emotions and feelings with someone --- no matter how warm and caring the therapist is.
 Are you comfortable with your therapist?
Is it a good relational fit?
 Maybe this is a good thing to discuss with your specific therapist at the beginning of your next session --- maybe they can help you find some strategies or tools to make it easier?
Well, it's generally okay to feel anxious or nervous about going into therapy, particularly in the beginning because the process of being open about what you are going through, much less to someone who you don't know well, can be anxiety-producing.
It's also common to feel anxious when you are discussing something that is important, difficult to discuss, or you are making changes that are very difficult for you.
The most important thing I can tell you, though, is to discuss with your therapist this idea that you feel nervous and shaky.
Some anxiety can actually help to motivate or lead you toward change.
There are also level of anxiety that can be counterproductive, so it's a good thing to discuss.
Personally, I can tell you that I would want my clients to tell me about anxiety they feel 100% of the time.
That opens the dialog to discuss whether it is the level of anxiety that they want to sit with and learn about in discovering more about themselves and their experiences and/or whether they would like to do something to lessen the feeling of anxiety.
Thanks for writing here.
If it caused anxiety for you to do so, I hope that feeling is diminishing for you, at least related to writing here.
Certainly.
of I would love to know a little bit more about what's going on in your life but I will attempt an answer.
Yes, you could still be shaky and nervous going to therapy.
This therapy thing your doing is sometimes scary.
First, because your opening up things that you might have never wanted to.
Second, your still building a relationship with this therapist person.
You may never get over that.
The therapist really can't be your "friend".
They are there to push the buttons that you might not want pushed and help you heal.
That in itself is scary and can make you anxious.
Third, you really never know where this therapy thing will go.
Yes, there are goals.
But sometimes side roads need to be taken and sometimes that is scary.
Know this you are in the right place.
You are taking steps to change.
It is absolutely a typical response.
Many of my clients are nervous the first couple of times we meet.
This is essentially a stranger with whom you are sharing your feelings.
It's normal to feel a little anxiety--after all it's an important encounter for you.
My suggestion is to discuss this with your therapist, let him/her know how you're feeling, especially if you feel as though your level of anxiety is impacting the quality and benefit of your sessions.
You might try some relaxation techniques prior to starting the session, deep breathing, progressive relaxation, core muscle dis-engagement--If you're not familiar with these techniques ask your therapist or write back.
Hello there. You ask about being nervous and shaky walking in to your therapy session and want to know if its normal?
I realize there a few ways to look at this.
I presume you weren'tanticipating feeling this way; and probably hoped to feel the opposite.
Well, my initial response is yes, sure, it can be within reason to feel this way.
Have you been in therapy before?
Is this somewhat new?
That could be part of the reason.
But either way; new or not, I think when are entering into a meeting that holds potential evaluation of deep things about you and your heart and soul, it can cause anyone to tremble.
The soul can be anticipating some things could be shaken up here, and it can feel scary to look at these things and then change.
Looking deep at our life can feel daunting and scary; so your response just might be regards to potential growth trying to happen.
OR, is there something about the therapist you don't feel confident about?
This too might be in play as a reason for your feelings, Maybe you lack confidence in that therapist ?
Have you let your therapist know how you feel?
That would be good to explore,I would like to encourage you to look at these ideas.
Hope it helps.
"Normal" can be an insidious word to use because it can undermine your sense of worth.
It implies there's one particular way you should be behaving and can leave you feeling crappy and "abnormal" if you're not behaving according to that prescribed standard.
Instead, what I'd recommend is to pay attention to your emotional experiences when you're attending therapy.
Explore your feelings and thoughts without judgement and try to reflect and understand what's going on that's causing you anxiety.
Once you figure out the underlying meaning of the anxiety, you can figure out a way to handle it and action steps to take to diminish it.
Everyone has different experiences going to therapy.
Being nervous can be a typical emotion one might feel.
Emotions are our body's way of telling us important information about ourselves.
I would suggest talking openly in your sessions about this.
That way you can process your thoughts and feelings with the guidance of your counselor.
There are probably underlining emotions (fears or insecurities) that are being stirred up during your therapy sessions.
Your counselor might suggest individual counseling depending on what you learn about your anxiety.
In individual therapy you would have time to deal with your own stressors.
As you address your issues, then you will have tools and skills that will be useful in addressing the couple relationship.
I would be more concerned with how is this being addressed in therapy.
Therapy can be a rewarding process, however often times we do not pay much attention to the messages being sent to our bodies.
I believe in somatic therapy which deals with our mind & body connection.
I would think it may not be a question of normal or abnormal however if it is impacting you then you must pay attention to that.
It would be helpful to explore the feelings you're having with your therapist.
It may be something that needs addressing to help alleviate those feelings or have a better understanding of why they are showing up when it is time for therapy.
It is totally normal - you have a lot riding on this and you're invested!
Think about why you feel so shaky - is it something about the therapist or their style?
If so, it would be a good idea to talk with them about it so you feel more at ease.
In any case bringing up your feelings about therapy intherapy is totally appropriate and even necessary.
Good luck!
Hello,There are many ways to approach a counselor and starting the process, however they all start with picking up the phone.
It's most definitely an uncomfortable feeling, but once that first step is taken it is often met with a wave of relief.
My recommendation is always to call and speak with a therapist over the phone before scheduling an appointment.
Listening to how they converse, use their tone and inflection, may give you a brief insight to how they will respond to you and increase your comfort right away.
You may also discover, rather quickly, that this therapist is not the right match for you.
Regardless of how you go about it, I like to remind all people who call, email, text or walk-in, therapists are a bit like pizzas - if you don't like the toppings, send it back!
There are hundreds of therapists offering all kinds of styles of therapy - take the time to pick one that suits you.
Most counselors are very approachable and many offer a 15 minute chat by phone to allow you to talk about your issue, and to get a feel for the counselor.
If you like what you hear by phone, the next step is to set up a face-to-face meeting.
Studies show that the most important element in effective therapy is that you feel a connection with your counselor.
Trust your instincts and if you don't feel comfortable, let him or her know that you don't think it's a good fit.
Many counselors list on websites like Psychology Today and Good Therapy.
Visit these websites to learn more about therapists in your area.
Hi!
Great question!
My suggestion would be to google therapists in your area.
One great website is called Psychology Today, which is a National site.
You can search for therapists in your zip code and search more specifically for the issue you are seeking support about.
It's a great way to find out if they therapist has a speciality, accepts insurance and whether they offer a free phone consultation.
I would then make a list of the ones that may be a good fit and then give them a call!
Hope this helps.
Remember you get to ask anything you need to, to determine if someone is a good fit.
Don't be afraid to ask anything!
Best of luck!
Hello. Counseling often begins way before the client ever actually calls the local therapist.
There is often a tipping point in the internal struggle that the client experiences, where they can no longer deal with the issues on their own and thus giving the motivation to seek external help.
That said, clients usually go seeking therapists based on what their insurance will cover, or what is likely to be more and more the case in the near future,what they are able to pay for out of pocket.
That first phone call to a prospective counselor can often feel like torture, but it doesn't have to stay that way.
Counselors are well trained to acknowledge the inherent goodness of all clients, and should be able to see and hear the sense of fear in the client of being judged or put down in some way.
The counselor you select should be compassionate, caring, able to join with you on your journey to resolving your issues or concerns, and to do so without negative judgment of you as a person of worth.
Once you have found a counselor you want to work with, you would then schedule an appointment to meet.
That first session is often very low key.
There might be some forms for you to complete, which will help the counselor address your concerns and learn a bit more about you.
The counselor will typically provide you with what we generally call in the profession a professional disclosure or practice statement.
This document (which may be several pages long) usually outlines the counselor's credentials; practice rules; forms of payment; office hours; emergency contact details; and confidentiality guidelines under state and federal law, among other details.
All of this benefits you as the client, so that you are well informed and can focus your attention on why you are meeting with the counselor.
In the first session, it is absolutely okay to be nervous.
Here's a really big secret (which is important to keep in mind as counseling begins): Counselors are often as nervous (if not more) to meet a new client, as the client is to meet their new counselor.
It's true.
We as professionals are trying to put our best foot forward to impress you with our awesome counseling skills.
While simultaneously hiding all the troubling unwanted issues that we ourselves have in our life too, and being worried that we might not know if we can help the client sitting in front of us.
What makes it even more challenging, is that counselors are often put on a giant pedestal of perfection by clients (all while we as counselors tend to look at it like we're standing on a three legged stool).
This is normal for us when seen from the eyes of the client.
Counselors and clients are both human, and we both make mistakes.
Coming from that place of understanding, might bring a sense of ease to both the client and the therapist as they seek to work together.
Part of this perception of perfection held by clients toward counselors, is that the skills of the counselor might look like they have all the answers.
We honestly do not, plain and simple.
Counselors come from life experiences (where they might be farther down on life's road than you); they hold completion of various forms of training; and have advanced education.
Yet we are in the end, imperfect beings struggling to help imperfect people.
This makes it easier to be compassionate to new clients walking through our door with the hope that we will receive that same compassion in return.
Very often, we can find ourselves reflected in our clients' lives with their struggles and can become more effective at helping if we have resolved similar issues in our own life.
So as you begin to seek out a therapist, try looking for one who is aware of their own life issues and is actively working on them too.
Someone who can meet you where you are at emotionally and can understand your sense of your struggle that you are facing at the present moment.
That counselor may be a good example for you as you enter into therapy and build your own strength, and thus begin dealing with the issues more effectively you bring up in therapy.
Usually people call me by phone, they introduce themselves, we chat for a bit, then we schedule a time for their appointment.
Honestly, don't :(Talk with your close friends, first (y'know, the ones you actually can tell sh*t to, not the more surface level ones, god-bless-their-souls,Be with your family; should you have a fine relationship with them, tell them and utilize them; they gave you life and that bond (especially between a mother and son) is unbreakable.
Go with your faith; as often as various faiths have been blasted and lambasted around the world, understand that they're ultimately trying to get you closer to God.
And, ain't that a big thing.
Go with those around you FIRST that actually MIGHT GIVE A CR*P about you, FIRST, before going to a total stranger you've never met before, that is just as damaged, stupid, and imperfect as we all are.
Great question!
You can find a counselor by doing an internet search or by asking your doctor for a referral.
Once you have the name and contact information for a therapist you want to meet with, give them a call.
Some therapists will provide a free 15-20 minute phone consultation.
This is a good chance for you to get some questions asked.
Be sure to ask about their fee, if you want to use your insurance ask them if they take your insurance.
Next you will want to ask about availability to make sure they have open times that fit in your schedule.
Once you make the appointment, in the first session you have with the therapist, the therapist will ask a lot of questions about what brought you into therapy and what you hope to accomplish in therapy.
I usually use the last 10 minutes of that first session talking with clients about how I might be able to help them with their concern and I gather feedback from them.
Here is a link to an article about how to speak with your therapist in those first couple of sessions.
Great question.
Too often people search for the help they need via a phone book or a basic internet search.
When looking for a new person to add to your team, whether it be a Counselor, Plumber, or Mechanic, it is important to know as much as you reasonably can about the person.
I generally take the following steps: 1) Know what is important to me in finding help.
2) Ask for referrals from my trusted friends, family, and colleagues.
3) Search for online reputation (Better Business Bureau, Yelp, etc).
The absence of an online reputation is not necessarily a bar to consideration.
However, a predominantly negative review may warrant further research.
4) Finally call the Counselor and ask a few questions.
Let the Counselor know what you are looking for.
Trust your gut.
For example, if you feel rushed or do not receive thorough answer, move on to the next.
Taking the time to defining and conveying your requirements about what you are looking for in counseling can save you a lot of work down the road.
I'd recommend looking on psychologtoday.
com, reading the bio's of potential therapists who you think you would relate best with, then contact them through e-mail or on the phone.
Hi,Reaching out on this site was a great first step!
To start counseling, I would recommend looking up counselors and thinking about what sort of counselor would be a good fit.
See if they have areas of focus that line up with your goals, and never be afraid to call and set up a consultation.
Usually these are free of charge and can help you make your decision.
I have found that if you go to my website and fill out the form, I can usually get back to you within 24 hours.
In my most efficient instances, I've been able to set-up a consultation within a couple of days, which is just 15 minutes by phone, to chat a little about what you might want to work on, how I may or may not be a good fit Then from there, if you want to meet in person we can set up an initial session.
I will usually be able to let you know what kinds of ongoing times for counseling that I have available over the phone.
Scheduling is a big barrier to finding a therapist, especially in New York, when schedules seem pretty busy all around.
I've heard a lot of statistics about how prospective clients in therapy will often wait for months before reaching out, which is why I think that email is great.
Cold-calling can cause an unnecessary amount of anxiety (also, who will hear me on the phone) whereas email is relatively easy to begin a conversation, from what I've found.
I tend to recommend clients give a new therapist a couple of sessions to get a feel for fit.
But, if it's horrible after one session, and you feel awful when you leave, that's another story.
I might want to explore with you what felt so awful, but if you don't want to come back, that is well within your right.
Also, keep in mind that we want to help.
So, please don't feel like we are judging you for seeking out help!
You are strong for doing so.
Far too often I hear about it as a weakness, and that's just BS.
You can search by location and identify therapists who have expertise in your area of concern.
Once you find a few people that fit your criteria, read about them on Psychology today as well as check out their website if they have one.
Next, either call or email them to set up a time to talk for a few minutes.
When you speak with them, you want to know a few things: do they have a decent amount of experience in your area of concern?
Are their fees, insurance coverage and scheduling availability a good fit for you?
Most importantly, see if you feel comfortable when you speak to them on the phone!
If this person is a good match in these areas, schedule an initial consultation so that you can see if you are also a good match in person.
Hello. Usually the person interested in therapy reaches out to the therapist, by telephone or email.
I like to respond with appreciation for their making contact and ask if they are available for a phone consultation in order to see how I may be able to help.
Once we are on the phone, I like to get a brief sense of what's happening in their life and the way in which I respond and the way we communicate will give each of us a sense of whether our dynamic is appealing enough to take the next step.
And the next step is making an appointment.
Also in the initial conversation, you can feel free to ask what their therapeutic modality is or give a brief scenario and ask how the therapist might respond to that situation.
I encourage you to be fearless in "interviewing" the therapist.
This is one of the most sacred connections of trust you could be about to forge, so if you don't feel comfortable, move on to the next therapist on your list.
If the connection feels good to you, then it's worth it to make the first appointment.
You will immediately know if you don't feel comfortable speaking with this person.
But if you DO feel comfortable, heard, validated even in that short conversation, I encourage you to make the appointment.
Once you're in the first session, you can continue to assess through how your feeling and responding, just how comfortable you are or are not.
Just keep listening to yourself every step of the way!
Great question.
The decision to pursue therapy can be a very difficult one and the fact that there seem to be so many profiles that you have to wade through can be particularly daunting.
Here's what I suggest to make the process a bit easier:1) Narrow down your preferred geographical area.
Are you in a rural, suburban, or urban environment?
If it's either of the latter two, you'll probably have a mental health professional close by.
Decide now if it's important to you that their office be within walking or short driving distance.
2) Decide if you need it to be covered by your insurance.
You'll have more options if you're willing to pay out of pocket and get reimbursed by your insurance, but more and more people are accepting insurance these days.
3) Find someone whose profile has the key words that you're looking for.
If you're struggling with traumatic flashbacks, make sure they have "trauma" or something along those lines in their profile.
4) Make sure they have a friendly and professional picture.
This is small, but this detail shows that they really care about how they present to the world.
5) Come up with a list of about 3 people and rank them from most appealing to least.
Set up an appointment with the person who seems like the best fit and give it a try for the first session.
You'll know by the end of it if it's a good fit.
It can be scary, but finding the perfect fit makes it so worth it.
Good luck!
First, identify the areas that you need help with.
What are the issues that are most troubling you?
Are these situations creating an impact on your daily routine?
Second, do some research as to the type of counselling service you are looking and that would best suit your needs.
Are you looking for individual sesssions, couples/family sessions And research potential therapists in your area that focus their counselling approach on your therapeutic needs.
Third, contact the therapist (most don't answer the phones, so leave a message or send an email).
Don't be affraid to ask questions.
You want to make sure that this professional is a good "match" for you and will work with you at working toward your therapeutic goals (the things you want to address/work on during the sessions).
Fourth, have the expectation that, depending on the issues, you will need multiple sessions/appointments with the therapist to really address the issues and work toward your therapeutic goals.
It takes strength and courage to reach out for help, but I know you can reach your goals.
It takes time, patience, and practice do really address your needs.
Good luck!
I always suggest that you find the right fit.
You have every right to interview the therapist and ask as many questions as you need.
It is our job as a therapist to explain our approach and philosophy.
This gives you a good overview of the therapist.
Just call and say that you would like to talk to the therapist.
Say your interested in the services but unclear about how the process works.
Starting the counseling process can be daunting but here are some ways that hopefully help make the process a little less overwhelming.
First,I'd start with finding a therapist through a therapist directory and searching for a therapist specifically in your area and with the expertise you're looking for.
There are many reputable therapist directories online that offer specific information and links to therapist websites to learn more about how they can help.
Next,I'd pick two or three of interest to contact directly.
Have a list of questions that are important to you that you can ask to determine whether a particular therapist is a good fit.
Many therapists offer a free phone consultation to allow you both to determine whether it is a good fit.
Then, after you schedule, the next step is to see what it's like being in session to determine if the fit is still a match.
The easiest way to start the counseling process is to do a little research online.
A quick search for the type of counseling you are looking for can be helpful.
There are lots of Counselors out there to choose from, so many times you will have to take it a few steps further than that.
Check out their website, social media, and any reviews (but remember, people are not always very nice).
If you plan on using insurance to pay for at least part of the services, look for one that is in your network.
You can find out if someone is in your network by looking for providers on your insurance's website.
If your coverage isn't that great and you know you're going to be paying for it all anyway (because you're an all-star and verified your coverage already with the insurance company), then you can really pick any Counselor you want, but working with one that is at least out of network will give you the benefit of having it applied to your deductible.
If you have any questions about that process or just want some help in getting your benefits from the insurance company once you've started counseling, Better is a good option.
Once you've found a Counselor you think is a good fit for you, normally the best step to take here is to call and schedule your very first appointment.
With many Counselors you can now send an email, but a phone call can normally tell you quite a bit about someone and their clinic.
Once you're all scheduled, they will either get you to do some paperwork before you come in, or many times they just let you fill it out once you get there.
From there, all you have to do is show up!
Approaching a counselor can seem intimidating at first, but most mental health professionals want to help you feel safe and heard.
You can often find counselors using search engines like CounselChat or Psychology Today.
These websites allow you to get to know therapists before you take the next step.
These days, counselors have websites where you can learn even more.
These websites usually have clear instructions for contact.
Typically, you can reach out via phone or email to request a consultation.
During a consultation call, you can ask the therapist questions about their credentials and areas of expertise.
If you feel like you connect, you can schedule a first session where you will tell them more about yourself and why you are seeking therapy.
The thing to remember is that therapists want you to reach out to them, and they are happy to be approached for support.
Good luck!
I think it is important that you are able to convey what you are looking for in a therapist even if that changes over time.
You need to look at it like you are interviewing the counselor and that they will be able to provide you with the therapy you need.
To many times we do not know and it ends up not being a good fit and then people are left with a bad experience and do not want to re-engage.
Remembering you are basically hiring someone to help you so I would treat it as such.
Do some research and be clear as to why you are coming to therapy and ask questions as how they will be able to help you.
The first thing to do is to reflect on what you want to seek counseling.
Search online and then set up a phone consultation.
A person can find out a lot about a counselor and the services that they offer over the phone.
After a consultation then set up an intake questions.
The overall goal is to make sure that you are comfortable with the counselor and the services they can offer.
Phone or email a counselor whose profile you've read and which feels right for you.
Ask to get a feel as to the way the person would handle your problem and work with you.
In my practice I offer a phone consult which generally continues for twenty minutes.
I feel it is only fair that a prospective patient has a feel for the service they are about to purchase before they can be expected to pay money for a service which may not be to their liking at all.
Oh, crying in therapy is very normal!
I have a stack of kleenex boxes in my office.
Cry away, therapist are very used to it.
First time being in therapy is scary, but you'll soon know if you are a good match.
People do cry in therapy sometimes, but it's not at all necessary to cry in order for most kinds of therapy to be helpful.
When you start counseling you don't yet know your counselor very well, so it's normal to keep your feelings in check until you feel comfortable and a bit more relaxed with your counselor and with the situation.
Sometimes, though, there are emotions that have been waiting and waiting to finally find someone who will listen with a kind ear.
If you feel safe right away in the situation with your counselor, you might just cry in spite of your fears about it.
Your therapist is used to people expressing how they feel and will keep strict confidentiality, so even though it's embarrassing, finally experiencing someone truly listening with empathy and kindness may just be worth it.
It's okay too to let your counselor know right at the beginning that you're kind of freaked out about getting too emotional in front of another person.
Crying is a natural process when you talk about upsetting things especially in therapy when you are opening up and being so vulnerable.
I suggest that you consider how you would feel/respond to someone that was confiding to you and they began to cry.
If you felt concerned, supportive and empathetic then you know exactly how us therapists feel when our clients are emotional in sessions.
I suggest that you think of times where you have cried and how you felt at that time in public and what would have helped to make you feel less uncomfortable during your tears.
I think of crying like any other natural reaction of our body such as sneezing, laughing, coughing.
You can't help but do those things and most people won't really judge negatively if you do it in public.
Similarly, crying is our body's reaction when we are emotional whether it is tears of joy, from a hilarious joke or from being upset.
If you are very uncomfortable about crying but willing to start therapy perhaps you can ask the therapist if you can turn your chair around if you begin crying.
This way you are not facing them and can self soothe without worrying about how you physically look at that time.
I wish you luck and you should be proud of yourself for starting therapy and I wish you a wonderful journey on this important path that you are embarking on.
It is not uncommon to be a bit nervous meeting your therapist (or another person) for the first time.
Your therapist understands that calling and getting an appointment was a big step for you and will do their best to put you at ease.
Providing a safe environment for our clients includes not judging them and being comfortable with the information and emotions that they share with us.
It is ok to cry and to trust that the therapist will honor this as part of your process.
Yes, if crying is how you are expressing an emotion, then not only would it be normal, but hopefully encouraged, because it's an important part of therapy to have a safe space to express your emotions.
We might encourage you to put words to the tears as well, to help you expand on your experience and begin to make more sense of it.
As a therapist, our job is help you open up and feel comfortable enough doing so.
I sincerely hope no therapist would ever shame you for whatever experience you are having in the room.
It is is absolutely normal to cry in therapy.
I can understand wanting to keep everything together and put your best foot forward with everyone you come into contact with, but it can be such a powerful experience to cry with somebody that can hear you and accept you.
It's so brave of you to go and share yourself with your counselor!
I hope you will keep being brave as you begin healing.
When talking about difficult issues, it is very normal to cry.
Crying is a natural way for us to cope with the sadness that we experience in life.
When confronting some of these things in a counseling session, tears just seem to come naturally.
Every Counselor should be well equipped to handle that level of emotion, and you would be far from the first to cry when talking with a Counselor.
Hi there!
As someone who has practiced as a clinical psychologist for 25 years, I would say that crying is NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT AT ALL!
Almost every single person I have worked with has cried at one point or another.
Starting therapy takes a lot of courage; when you work with a therapist, once you feel safe, you talk about a lot of very private and potentially emotional things that you may have never discussed with anyone before.
I have seen people cry with sadness, cry with relief at releasing painful things they have held onto for a long time, cry because they feel so relieved that they finally feel heard.
I myself have sometimes cried with clients because some things they talk about are so profoundly moving.
I can assure you that most, if not all, therapists expect clients to cry and there is nothing to be embarrassed about.
Crying can be very cathartic and can allow us to release a lot of painful feelings we have been stuffing down.
Crying is often a sign that you are really working things through and getting in touch with feelings that you need to get in touch with in order to heal.
So, to summarize, don't worry at all about crying!
It will probably feel uncomfortable at first, but I promise you, you will not be judged for crying in therapy.
And it will be less embarrassing once it happens a time or two and you are assured that your therapist will be there for you and won't judge you!
Good luck!
!
Lots of people do cry in session, but your therapist won't be uneasy with this.
Crying is a natural response and it also releases toxins, so some might say it's necessary!
Remember that you can be in charge of what you talk about in your session and if there's something that feels too uncomfortable, just say, "I'm not ready to talk about that.
Your counselor wants you to feel at ease and will probably not push you right away to a very uncomfortable place.
As you get to know your therapist, you will feel more relaxed and even not worry so much about how you appear to them.
It's normal to be anxious going into a new situation especially when you might not feel in control of uncomfortable emotions.
Don't give up, go and put your best effort in, hope that helps!
Many people cry during their therapy sessions.
Actually most people cry in their therapist's office.
I tell my clients that it's safe to cry in my office and crying isn't a sign of weakness.
It's a normal human response to pain.
People actually do more harm to themselves by trying not to cry than by crying.
Crying is very cleansing and an important part of the healing process for many people.
Please feel free to cry during therapy if you suddenly feel painful emotions arising when you describe some of your unsatisfying and unfulfilling relationships and situations.
Crying when realizing the emotional hurt and unfairness between you and someone, clears you for new ways of handling interactions.
As a therapist, I always have a box of tissues on the table next to the couch where people who utilize my therapy, sit.
I hope you will soon discover that once your tears unlock your awareness of harmful relationships in your life, you will quickly see the freedom to establish new and happier patterns of relating.
Have a good therapy!
Please do not worry about crying.
People cry, laugh, rage, rant, and talk during counseling sessions.
Part of the therapy process is to look at your feelings, and to feel what you are actually feeling (instead of what you think you should feel).
So if you need to cry, that's ok.
If you feel embarrassed because you cried, or if you feel anxious that you might cry, well those feelings are ok as well.
Your counselor can help you manage your feelings so that you can attain your goals, and your counseling session is the perfect place for that.
For me, I want a client to feel like I understand what brings them to seek help from me.
So I might explore both their present circumstances, as well as their history, and try to start making some connections between the two, but so that the both of us can understand what is taking place.
Not every therapist goes into history in the same way, either.
The way the therapist practices will often inform the ways in which they collect and look at data.
However, above all, my goal, especially in the beginning of therapy, is to work on developing a working rapport with any client.
Most research states that the quality of the relationship, rather than modality of therapy, indicates success rates.
One of the most essential components of rapport is that someone feels heard, attuned to, and understood.
Hi. This is an excellent question!
I think that the answer probably varies depending upon the particular therapist.
In my work with people, once we have met and I have gotten an idea of the person'a concerns and the issues they want help with, I spend the next few sessions gathering as much history and as much information about the client's current concerns in order to formulate some ideas about what may be causing distress.
I would then share my thoughts with the client to see if they feel I am understanding them and on the right track.
We would then discuss the best plan to address the client's concerns.
Usually I will suggest strategies that I think may be helpful and ask the client for feedback about whether or not they think my suggestions feel helpful.
I always encourage clients to be really honest with me about this.
I tell them that I would hate for them to agree to try things that they know they won't try just to avoid "hurting my feelings" or "offending me.
I want to be helpful and while I have the expertise as far as typically helpful strategies, I really like to work collaboratively and have clients tell me what they do and don't like / agree with or not agree with when I share my thoughts about a treatment plan.
We the  work together to come up with a plan that will be helpful, but also realistic and then revise it and try new things if necessary as we go along.
If things aren't improving, I am very happy and willing to try something new!
I hope this is helpful for you!
There are probably no two therapists alike because first and foremost we are human beings!
And, our personalities may somewhat guide how we go about getting to know you, identifying what you would like to be different in your life and developing a plan to get where you would like to be.
The very most important thing that will determine a successful outcome is the healthy therapeutic relationship between you and your therapist.
If you don't feel safe, comfortable and ready to work together, then it is likely not a good fit.
And that's OK, speak up and the therapist should assist you in finding someone you can readily work with.
One way to concentrate is that if your mind starts to wonder then remind yourself to bring your attention back.
Start with short time spans of expecting yourself to concentrate.
You'll more likely succeed with concentrating with small time spans than longer ones.
Once you start seeing your success, this will motivate you to try increasing the length to expect yourself to concentrate.
The task of self-reminding is the same, whether for long or short time periods.
Also, before starting this exercise ask your medical doctor if the problem can be related to a physical health problem.
If there is, then have the possibility ruled out that your difficulty concentrating comes from the mental ability to concentrate, and not some medical reason preventing this.
Before someone can engage their psychological will there must be a clean medical body and mind with which to work.
I've talked to many teens who frequently sneak out.
The question I always ask them is, "What are you getting from sneaking out that you aren't getting at home".
Many teens answer they are hooking up, using substances, and engaging in other risky behaviors.
As uncomfortable as it might be, I encourage you to talk with your parents or guardians about the reasons why you are sneaking out.
What are you getting "out there" that you aren't getting at home? A good family counselor can help sort through those issues.
Good luck!
When you say you've "been caught", I am assuming that means your parents know you've been sneaking out.
If that's the case, could you ask for their help? Sometimes just knowing someone else is holding you accountable really makes a difference.
That could be as simple as Dad checking in on you at, say, 2 am, just to make sure you are where you are supposed to be.
If you are sneaking out to hang out with friends, find another way to connect with them - if they are truly friends they will want to support you in your resolution to stay put at night.
Maybe you can ask for their support by telling them to stop including you in late night plans.
There is likely a reason you were sneaking out, but there's a reason you want to stop too - so get support.
No one changes hard habits on their own! Best of luck to you - you can do this and it will help you change other things in the future.
Hi, When we can't stop doing things that we know are wrong, it can help to take a closer look at how we make our decisions.
Usually we are getting something good out of these bad behaviors, such as feeling excited or taking our minds off of bad things.
It is really hard to change these things without helping us get the good effect in a more healthy way.
I hope this helps.
Hi.
let's start with what's causing you to sneak out of the house? Understanding the motivation behind your actions (in this case.
your sneaking out at night) can often times help you create the change you want.
Are you arguing with your parents? Do you feel misunderstood? Alone? Scared? Stressed out? What are you doing once you leave the house? Where are you going? Are people in your home in conflict? Do you feel safer when you leave? Most importantly, reflect on what may be behind the reason for your wanting to leave the house and feeling not in control of your actions? Talk to someone about what's going on, because maybe that person could help you create the movement you are seeking.
This is not totally unusual behavior, but the fact that you would like to stop and cannot seem to be able to points to something deeper.
That cannot be unpacked online, but I'm glad that you're in this space and asking this question.
Try to find a therapist who seems like a good fit and begin to get to work on this issue and what all is going on for you.
You're not alone!
Where do you go and what is your reason to go wherever this is? Try to understand these reasons because the answers may give you good guidance as to other ways to get what it is your trying to reach by sneaking from your home at night.
If for example, you're sneaking out because your parents are arguing and you feel hurt by this and want to escape hearing their arguments, then you can come up with other ways to hear less of their arguments.
If you sneak out because your parents restrict your friends or time to socialize with your friends, and your friends are doing legal and safe behaviors, then maybe you could do some socializing online with them.
Also, I wonder the reason why either of your parents isn't aware that you leave the house.
Do you feel your parent would offer and would you ask your parent to give their suggestions so you feel more motivated to stay home?
Counseling can be very effective for OCD.
In particularly, a kind of therapy called Exposure Response (Ritual) Prevention Therapy is considered the 'gold standard' for the treatment of OCD.
What this is, is a specific protocol that helps you build relaxation strategies and to increase the amount of time between your checking/cleaning rituals while also helping you to face any of the fears that OCD given you until those rituals and fears are no longer interfering with your life.
Research has shown that this kind of therapy may even be more effective for OCD than medication.
Possibly yes, and definitely worth a try.
First read about different types of therapy for OCD so that you find a therapist who does the type of therapy which feels best when you read about it.
Mood swings and getting frustrated when things don't work out is totally normal.
Sometimes, we get tied to one thing we really want to do and it can feel pretty intense when that gets interrupted or doesn't work out.
This said, you're coming to Counsel Chat and so I'm guessing this is something that is pretty intense for you and something that you are concerned about.
If this is getting in the way of your life, it may be worthwhile to reach out to a therapist or doctor to get some help with this and see if there might be something more going on.
While for most people frustration/mood swings is related to typical life and stress, if very intense it can be a sign of a number of challenges ranging from anxiety to a traumatic experience to something like Bipolar Disorder where a person's mood and energy might fly so high (mania) that one feels like they can do anything but often become frustrated when interrupted (note: there is a lot more to Bipolar Disorder than this and this is certainly not a diagnosis).
Wish you well!
Why do you blame other people who had nothing to do with your actions?
If it is because after the fact you wish you had accepted their help, then the person who is responsible for this is you! Since you are aware of your tendencies and how the interfere with your life, try to become aware of when you do these habits.
This way you can interrupt your own patterns a little bit at a time.
Teenagers are prone to mood swings due to developmental and hormonal changes that are rapidly and intensely occurring in your body and mind - so some of this happens to many people in your stage of development.
You are not at all alone.
You've taken the first and very important step in regulating your moods by just identifying that you are having these intense changes instead of being completely submerged in them and unaware! The more you are able to be a witness to your emotions and thoughts, the more you can learn to manage them.
Your question offers several clues for strategies that you can try - for example, identify the warning signs for becoming irritated and plan a response, such as taking a deep breath, informing the person you are becoming irritated and need some space, or find a distraction temporarily like listening to music or going for a walk.
Since you are aware of blaming others for things not working out, you can proactively make a personal commitment to taking ownership or personal responsibility by just thinking about it and practicing thoughts such as "I am responsible for my efforts" and "Blame is not helpful for anyone" and other thoughts that you believe and can repeat related to this insight.
When you practice thinking more rational, healthy thoughts, you are actually rewiring your brain, so practice is key!
Hearing voices can be a very upsetting experience to have.
I want you to know that a lot of people will hear a voice at some point in their lives and that there are many things that cause voices.
Oftentimes, significant stress can offset us to have symptoms like this.
There are also mental and physical health conditions that can do the same.
I strongly encourage you to seek out help from both a doctor and a counselor to help you piece together exactly what is causing your voices.
I Once you've got that down, you'll know what to work on.
In the meantime, here are some strategies to cope with voices: Lower your stress levels: Oftentimes stress makes voices worse.
What can you do to lower your stress?
Get enough Sleep: Like stress, sleep deprivation is an awful trigger for hearing voices Listen to Music; Music can help you focus on another sound.
Wear headphone or Earplugs.
Use Your Own Voice; If the voices are saying harsh things to you, it can be tempting to talk back and that's okay if you do.
However, you can also use your own voice through singing, whistling, or the like, which can help drown out the voices.
Remind Yourself that What the Voices Say is Not True; Sometimes it Helps to Write it Out.
Draw the Voice or Give it a Name; This can make it less scary and help get it outside of you.
Keep Track of When You Hear Voices to Identify Triggers; These are situations you can avoid while these are so distressful for you.
Be Kind to Yourself; When a Voice is Being Cruel to You it is especially important to be kind to yourself.
Remember that while hearing voices can be disturbing that it is a common experience and something that many people recover from.
I would recommend that you talk with a mental health professional near you about the details so you can have some really specific support for what you are going through.
I don't know if you can understand when the voices are saying, but I wonder how you feel about what you are hearing?
If the voices are just at night, is it possible that they are part of a nightmare or a dream?
If you recall your nightmares, consider writing them down so that you can remember their content and work with a mental health professional to look for patterns.
One thing that may help you while you are awake is to try to stay connected to the room you're in.
For example, take time to notice your feet on the floor, hips in the chair, and shoulders against the back of the chair.
You can also try mindfulness techniques, such as noticing what is around you or changing your breathing patterns.
These ideas may help in the meantime prior to having more specific ideas from someone near you.
Thanks for reaching out!
Are you in the middle of extreme emotional pressure right now? Or, is someone with whom you're close, under stress or somehow suffering? Dreams and nightmares are when our feelings and pressures we feel, try working themselves out without logic and language.
Even though the nightmares are horrible, they are one way your psyche is trying to come to terms with extraordinary difficulty in your life or someone's life whom you feel greatly attached.
It's important to take a look inside and find out why you are experiencing these feelings.
It could anything and it will change your life to know what your particular issue or trigger is.
Please contact us a call with the method that is most comfortable for you.
Write down your nightmares and discuss them with an analyst or psychotherapist who specializes in dreams, as I do.
If you are hearing voices while awake, see a doctor right away.
If the voices are strictly in your dreams, do call for therapy and talk to your caring others about what's happening.
I do not think there is such a thing as a psychotic seizure, however, there is something called a pseduoseizure or psychogenic non-epileptic seizure.
Basically, this is when a person shows signs of a full-on seizure (such as falling and convulsing) but they are not producing brain waves consistent with a seizure.
Psedoseizures tend to be brought on by high stress, emotional challenges, and trauma history.
Still, the best way to now what your doctor meant would be to ask them! :).
The best path is to ask your doctor what s/he meant when telling you about your high risk for psychotic seizure.
Your doctor knows you better than any of the therapists who write on this blog.
And, because your doctor knows your health, will likely have suggestions and advice for you regarding the seizures s/he thinks you may develop.
I will admit that I'm not specifically familiar with this from my own experience.
My best educated guess is that you could have a seizure during which you have some sort of symptoms similar to a hallucination (which is one of the psychotic symptoms) when you hear or see things that aren't really there.
In looking briefly online, it sounds like this would be a symptom in addition to an already existing seizure disorder, not a seizure disorder in addition to a mental health problem.
If it is the other way around, I'm not sure how that would work.
It is common with some types of seizures to have an altered state of reality during or shortly after the seizure, so that could also be related.
I would suggest you talk to your physician about this directly so that if they are worried about this, you can learn more about what is making them concerned about it and what, if anything, you could do to lessen the likelihood of it or how to handle it if it does happen.
Scary thoughts can feel overwhelming at times as well as feeling quite real.
I want to acknowledge how scary they can feel, but there is hope and new skills you can learn to work with these types of thoughts.
The first step in working with scary or negative thoughts is to acknowledge that they are just thoughts and we can choose to follow the scary thought streams or work with cutting them off or ignoring them.
I also realize that might seem really hard to do, but here's a good way to think about the brain and how thought patterns work.
Thoughts arise in the mind all the time, our brain is a thought machine.
Many thoughts drift by like clouds and we don't pay any attention while other thoughts arise and they trigger us in a particulate way, such as scary, angry, happy, sad, and when those thoughts arise we can chose to pay more attention to the thought which can lead us down that particulate thought stream that will lead to fear and anxiety.
So, how do we work or stop those scary thought streams?
One new skill to implement comes from the work of Rick Hansen, he wrote the book Buddha's Brain," he teaches that we need to give more energy and attention to the positive thoughts or positive memories we hold in our mind and pay less attention to the negative thoughts.
Hansen asks us to imagine the brain this way, the brain is like Velcro with negative thoughts and like Teflon when it comes to positive thoughts.
There are reasons that our brain works this way, but I don't have time to go into all of that in this response.
So, it's just important to remember we have to work at positive thinking, actually pausing throughout the day to focus on positive feelings and memories, this will help the mind reinforce positive thought streams and help reduce negative thought streams over time.
If a scary thought arises try to replace it with a happy experience for at least a couple of moments, and see if that helps reduce the negative charge connected with that scary thought.
Start by spending small amounts of time with your own thoughts and feelings.
Always being focused on what a phone offers keeps people at a distance from knowing themselves.
As long as you make time to spend in an activity which is not interactive the way a phone is, and instead depends only upon your actions, you will be investing time and energy into your own life.
Whether by consciously considering your own interests, or doing housecleaning or chores, by devoting yourself to areas which you decide to be involved in, you will increase your knowledge of your own interests.
Then, to not be so involved with your phone will be natural and easy.
You definitely want to make sure not to inadvertently create an inappropriate dual relationship with a client.
In fact, it is not uncommon for state regulatory boards to determine that a clinician and client being in the same 12 step group is professional misconduct.
You might want to consider attending a 12 step meeting that is located in a different community than the one you work in.
Another option would be to look for one-on-one or small group recovery support.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
I know that workplaces have some latitude when it comes to requiring certain behaviors from their employees.
For example, they may require you to tell them if you get into some kind of legal trouble.
But this situation seems completely different.
For one thing, 12 step meetings are supposed to be anonymous.
I am not sure how they would know that you attended unless you or someone else told them.
I agree that it seems like to cross a line.
Usually each state has an office that manages complaints related to employment, such as the Department of Labor or EEOC.
You may want to see which entity is in your state and contact them.
It would be worth asking them to see if this is a legal practice.
If it is but you still want/need to stay at this job, then you may want to look for alternate sources of support for your sobriety.
There are active online support groups that would allow you to do things from the privacy of your home.
There are also online groups that specifically discuss the 12 steps.
No matter what, I give you a lot of credit for doing your best to keep your sobriety and continuing to see the value in having support.
I'm so sorry to hear of your loss.
This sounds like a really difficult situation for the whole family.
Since the answer to this question will depend a lot on the applicable state laws, I would suggest talking with a local attorney.
That being said, I see two competing issues here.
On the one side is the duty of confidentiality the counselors owed to your relative.
On the other side is the duty the counselors had to act reasonably to protect your relative from harm.
Generally there is not a requirement for substance abuse treatment centers to notify family members if an adult client relapses.
A local attorney will be able to provide more specific guidance on the legal obligations and liabilities in this situation.
I am so sorry for your loss.
Generally therapists only have a duty to report self-harm to one’s self or others if it is expressed to them.
Often times they will not report relapses due to the fact that proper releases were not signed or patient has specifically asked them not to for fear of shaming or failure again.
I understand this may not be the answer you were hoping for.
I would encourage the family to seek therapy themselves for help coping with such a loss.
This sounds like a potentially serious situation.
The most important thing is to make sure the child is safe.
If you suspect that a child is (or has been) harmed, I would strongly recommend that you report your concerns to your local law enforcement or to Child Protective Services.
If you don't think that a child is in danger, you can still report your suspicion of counselor misconduct to the state regulatory board.
I will admit I am confused about this question.
Are you the other parent in question or a concerned coworker of this therapist?
Therapists do not prescribe or have access to medication.
Most therapists won't even get involved in a custody battle.
They know there is a good chance of their records ending up in court and that they themselves will have to testify in court.
Of course, therapists are human and can make mistakes, but I find it highly unlikely that a therapist would knowingly and willingly do something like this that is such a major ethical violation.
Not only are they losing their license to practice by doing this, they are going to face criminal charges and jail time.
If their clinical judgment is that the other parent is a danger to the child, they don't have to resort to illegal means to try to prove this.
If you have concrete proof that this has happened then there is a process in which you can file a report against the therapist with their licensure board.
Every therapist is licensed in their state.
Most accusations from the other parent are expected in a custody situation because people do tend to get quite ugly.
Don't accuse the therapist or the parent of anything just to try to make yourself look better and them look bad.
Have evidence of wrongdoing before accusing them of this.
If this has really happened then of course it needs to be reported, but don't try to ruin someone's career unless you are sure this occurred.
The general rule against medical abandonment says that whenever healthcare providers discontinue treatment with you when you still need it, they are legally required to make sure that you have access to another provider of equal or higher ability.
In this case, if your treatment team decided to discontinue your treatment based on a diagnosis of schizophrenia, they still will likely be required to provide you with a referral to someone who can provide you with treatment.
If you haven't already done so, I'd recommend that you explicitly ask for a referral.
My recommendation would be to try to talk to your therapist about this from your description, it sounds like you have a legitimate explanation for missing your scheduled session.
Maybe if you could explain that to her she would be willing to work with you.
If she is not willing to consider your explanation and if she is not willing to continue working with you, she still has an ethical obligation to provide you with referral resources to another therapist.
Mental health providers should promptly return calls from current clients as well as from potential clients.
This is even true if the social worker (or counselor) is unable to make an appointment with the caller.
In that case the social worker should call you back to let you know that he is unable to schedule an appointment with you.
In addition, mental health providers have an obligation to follow through with their own communication standards.
For example, if the social worker in this case has an outgoing voicemail message that promises returned calls within 24 hours, he has an obligation to follow through on that promise.
All that being said, it is also worth remembering that mental health professionals are just people too.
It is possible that he had an unforeseen emergency that kept him from returning your call promptly.
In the end, I agree with Sherry's advice.
If you feel this social worker is not a good fit for you, you probably should trust your gut and find someone else who is a better fit.
Yes, your former social worker should return your phone call.
It is the professional ethic to do so and plain human decency to do so.
If he doesn't, there is nothing you can directly do about the fact of his ignoring you.
There are formal complaints you can make, which you can consider doing.
What matters most is receiving social work service.
Stick with looking for another social worker who is willing to help you.
The self-doubts you mention may be worth examining.
They do not, however excuse the social worker mishandling himself.
It can be difficult to get counseling if you don't feel supported by family members.
There might be a few options.
If you are in school, I'd recommend talking to a school counselor or school nurse.
They often will be able to help you access free or affordable counseling resources in your community.
In addition, depending on where you live, it's also often possible to call 211 for referrals to free or low cost counseling services in your area.
I'd encourage you not to give up.
You are on the right track.
Your doctor might be required to tell your psychiatrist - especially if your doctor is concerned about your safety.
It was definitely a good thing that you told your primary care physician about what is going on.
I know that must have been difficult to talk about with him.
By having that conversation, you are helping your primary care physician and your psychiatrist work together to best support your health.
There are typically three reasons why therapy is terminated: 1) Client has met therapy goals 2) Client is not progressing 3) Therapist is not a good fit for client.
In order to properly assess whether therapy is helping and what progress is being made, the therapist needs to have ways of consistently checking in with clients sessions-by-session to determine what is helping, what isn't, and where the client is at in relation to their original therapy goals.
When a client has met their goals, that is a good time to end counselling sessions unless the client has new goals or simply wants to check-in periodically to make sure that they are still on track (sometimes referred to as relapse prevention).
When a client is not progressing, and feedback has been taken and attempts have been made to make the therapy more helpful for the client but to no avail, than it is considered unethical to continue to work with the client.
In these circumstances, referring out to another therapist who may be a better fit is a good idea.
Hello.
The end of the counselor/client relationship is one of mutual respect and engagement.
Counseling sessions can end for any number of reasons.
Among them are the client's inability to make forward progress in therapy; the clinician's inability to help the client (for a variety of reasons); a mutually agreed upon time frame for a number of sessions to be provided; or the financial challenges of the client who decides that they need to put their resources elsewhere.
In this last case, a counselor should never cancel sessions with a client simply on the basis of the client's inability to pay.
That is traditionally seen as an unethical practice.
Other arrangements can be made to provide care to the client, which in itself should be paramount.
When the client and therapist decide that services are done, it is best if there is at least one or two more sessions to allow a case file review to occur, and to bring an appropriate psychological sense of closure to the client (and vicariously to the clinician as well, those this is perhaps not as important).
This transition gives both a sense of having reached the end of a journey.
rather than some abrupt departure from it.
(An abrupt ending in therapy can have a varying level of impact both emotionally and psychologically on the client and therapist).
Sometimes the closure of therapy is the result of a program of therapy being formally completed, in which there is a mutually known (albeit perhaps approximate) date of when that program will be finished.
In this case, the client is likely feeling that impending closure and has time to prepare mentally and emotionally from a place of being the client in therapy, to a place of healing, growth and situational resolution.
I have always worked in therapy with the following slogan (if you will), that I learned years ago during graduate school: "Not every therapist is good for every client, and not every client is good for every therapist".
It is perhaps one of the most important guiding views I hold in working with clients.
The therapeutic relationship is driven by mutuality - the desire of the client to get better at living life, and the therapist's desire to truly see the client heal and grow.
When there is a block in this process from either side that prevents that synergy from occurring, the relationship that should be established may not be able to form.
Or, if already formed, may at some point be unable to move forward.
In these instances, referring the client to another type of service or clinician is appropriate.
Usually, this can be seen pretty quickly by either party, though sometimes it is not always clear.
Ultimately, the client and counselor need to work together to discover if the needs of the client (which is paramount) are being met in the therapeutic engagement with their current counselor, or if other arrangements need to be made to go elsewhere.
If both are observant in this process, they can work together to maintain that sacred space and continue to reach the goals that have been set.
Eventually, therapy will end, but hopefully based on the client's successful journey to the place where they wanted to go, and thus opening the next chapters of their life to a space that is more whole and brighter.
Hopefully both the client and counselor would together decide when to terminate counseling sessions.
It's really helpful for the client to leave counseling with a solid sense of what he or she has accomplished in counseling, so it can be a good idea to spend some time acknowledging that in the last session or sessions.
Sometimes, however, a client has needs beyond the scope of the counselor's expertise.
That's a good time for a conversation about those needs and ideas of how best to meet them, whether by adding in care with an additional mental health professional or transferring care entirely to a new mental health provider.
There are different reasons why a counselor may seek to terminate with a client and these will each have different processes by which the counselor will come to that decision.
Here are a few examples.
The counselor may determine that the client's needs are outside what the counselor is competent to be able to work with.
A person may have come to the counselor talking about a particular issue but either when they first met or as counseling progressed, it may become clear that the issue is in fact something different or that there is an additional related issue.
If that issue is outside the competence of the counselor, the counselor should look for alternatives, the most common of which would be to terminate and refer.
Beyond clinical issues, this could also come up around particular other related facts, such as the culture of the client or linguistic issues.
This could also be the choice of the counselor if they know someone that they feel would be a better match for the client's issues.
Another reason for discharge (and possible referral) would be if the relationship does not seem to be a good fit.
No counselor is the right person to work with everyone.
If the right level of connection is not happening, the counselor will often look first at what they are doing, might talk about it with the client and ultimately will admit that things don't seem to be working to allow the desired therapeutic process to work.
A similar process would be followed if the counselor determined that the client might not yet be ready for counseling as evidenced by lack of engagement such as frequent cancellations, not doing any agreed on work between sessions, showing up late or being really guarded in session.
The easiest situation to decide on is when a person has met their counseling goals and have nothing new that they are working on.
While this is the easiest one to determine, it is also probably the hardest one for the counselor as they may be like the client in not wanting the relationship to come to an end.
However, counselors know that this is part of the process.
They will also determine this by regularly reviewing the treatment plan or by sending in the sessions that the work has come to an end.
This type of termination maybe final or may be with the intent that the client will return later to address other things that have been identified but for which they are not ready to move into.
All of these (and other) situations involves the counselor being open to the relationship ending, to monitoring how things are going, then engaging in self-reflection, possibly talking with the client and then coming to a conclusion on which the counselor follows through.
From the very beginning of counseling sessions I emphasize that the work will and must end at some point.
In counseling there is an arc to the process.
A beginning, middle and end.
I am always digging, searching and exploring.
There comes a point where things come to their natural ending.
I always leave an opening for continuing counseling in the future.
At least as a check in.
For most: When the money/insurance runs out.
When best: When the job is done.
and you're feeling much better.
It is usually time to end counseling sessions when it is clear to both the client and the counselor that therapeutic goals have been reached and enough improvement has been made that the client can continue without that support.
There are exceptions to this rule, but for the most part this is when counselors begin termination.
For some clients, this is an easy process that marks the achievements they have made in working through their emotions and difficulties.
For some other clients, however, this is a difficult process in which they are losing a valuable support and are understandably anxious about what life will be like without the frequent meetings.
Ultimately, termination is different for everyone, and there are many ways that termination can be healthy and helpful.
As a therapist who believes in client self-determination above most other elements of the process, I want to as much as possible leave it up to the client to determine when they are finished.
In the case of a termination because a client's distress has resolved, I might periodically check in with the client about how therapy has been going, and if we want to re-evaluate where we are.
The more unfortunate situation would come about if I felt that I wasn't the best fit for the client.
I would offer that in words, and ideas of therapists (with names) of who I thought might be a better fit and why.
It still is up to the client whether to continue, however should they want to keep seeing me, a part of the work would be about that want (to see someone who professionally doesn't believe they can help as much as someone else).
I also find it perplexing when I hear a client (or on a personal level) tell me that their therapist said they "didn't need therapy".
I don't know that I buy into that scenario all that much, because I do believe that yes, not everyone NEEDS therapy, but that everyone CAN benefit from therapy and I don't believe it is the therapist's job to deter someone from ever seeking out help of any kind.
Ideally, termination should be a mutual process.
It's not that the therapist kicks the client out at some point and says, "Okay, you're done".
Rather, over time the client will decrease the frequency with which he/she comes to session so that it may start off as weekly, then decrease to biweekly, then perhaps once every three weeks, then once/month and so on.
Throughout this process, the therapist and client should have had regular check ins about progress toward goals.
If the client feels good about where he/she is in life, he/she might decide to suspend therapy for now.
That being said, the therapist should make it very clear that if the client ever decided to return for "maintenance" therapy or a check in, he/she would always be welcome.
There is no hard and fast rule to ending or a particular time period in which it must end.
What matters most is that the client feels good about it and knows that the therapist will always be there should he/she wish to return.
For a therapist, deciding to end counseling sessions or terminate working with a client is a thoughtful and intentional decision.
One that is not entered into lightly.
While there are many considerations counselors take into account, to help answer this question, I'll offer an example of two areas that counselor's take into consideration when ending counseling sessions: Does the client need different or more specialized care than the current counselor can provide? This requires the counselor to determine whether referring the client to another therapist or health care provider is needed.
And, has the therapeutic relationship reached treatment goal(s)? While this question is specific to the counselor, I'd like to also add that a client, at any time, can end counseling.
In general, I usually let the client decide when this should occur, sometimes with some clients it will be a joint agreement, but even in that case it should weigh mostly on what the client feels.
In short, therapy ends when you feel you’re done.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping.
If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination.
Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.
There are several reasons for a counselor to decide to end counseling.
A major reason to end counseling is if the counselor feels that he or she does not have the skills or experience to work with the client.
This may happen during the intake process or after working with the client for some time.
If the clinician feels that the client is not benefitting from the therapy, it is ethical to suggest that the client terminate the therapy.
The process of termination must not injure the client and, if necessary, the clinician may need to refer the client to other treatment modalities.
Another reason to terminate working with a client is if the client needs a higher level of care.
If the client has a crisis or is at risk of hurting himself or someone else, he or she may need a higher level of care.
In this circumstance, the clinician may need to involve outside services such as a crisis unit.
A third reason to terminate with a client is if the clinician feels that he or she cannot remain professional with the client relationship.
For example, if the issues that the client is working on bring up something significant for the clinician and the clinician feels that he is unable to separate that from the professional relationship.
In this instance, the clinician should refer the client to another therapist.
Finally, if the client has reached her goals for therapy and no longer needs treatment, the clinician and client should terminate treatment.
Counseling ends when the client has received the maximum benefit from the therapist.
Even if the therapist believes the client is not making progress, the client may feel they are improving and receiving a benefit.
And the therapist may see a benefit and the client does not.
It is best to have ongoing dialogue with the client to determine when termination is appropriate.
In the best case scenario, it's a mutual discussion and decision.
If not, I've had the discussion initiated both ways, by me, when I sense the client has gone has far as they want, by lack of interest in accepting or completing homework assignments, missing or cancelling appointments, usually at the last minute, lack of participation during sessions.
Client initiates by asking me pointed questions about why the need for homework assignments,, by forgetting their calendar, or their checkbook :) , by suggesting that we make appointments over longer intervals (once a week to once a month, for example).
I rarely have had to terminate a working relationship--that's why I don't charge for the first visit, so we know if we are a good fit before we start working together.
Then I periodically ask whether the client feels we are making progress, moving in the right direction, talking about the most relevant issues etc.
In my therapy practice the decision to end therapy is mutually made together with the patient.
Otherwise, the person can end up with a sense of tremendous rejection and abandonment.
The way you'll both know therapy is coming to a close is that the discussion will feel lighter and move easily.
The person's mood will be better, they will smile more, sit in their seat in a more relaxed way, look more at ease, take better care of their appearance.
One of the ways to end therapy is to gradually decrease the frequency of the sessions.
Sometimes people who are in my practice start to come each three weeks, then monthly, then every three months.
This gives a sense of security, friendliness, and casualness to the therapy, and de-medicalizes it as though the person was treated for a medical symptom and the symptom stops completely one day.
Talk therapy is about life and life problems usually end gradually.
I end my therapy in a way which mirrors the life process in which many interaction and situation problems show their effects gradually and show different effects over time.
Hi there, there are a number of reasons why a therapeutic relationship might end including, but not limited to the client reaching their goals, the client reaching a place of acceptance where they wish to remain or even a breach within the relationship.
The last aspect should likely be taken to supervision in order to be fully processed.
All of these things could happen, and usually happen organically (again, except for the last example).
Your question, however, was about the counselor ending treatment.
This is a bit more difficult and can be very nerve-wracking.
It may be beneficial to take this with you to supervision, as well.
It's important to understand why you feel the need to end or terminate with the client, as well.
Do you feel that they would be better suited for another therapist, have they achieved their goals or is it something else?
In regular, open-ended sessions, I try to make a point of checking in with the clients fairly frequently.
In these check-ins, I use the time to ask the client how they feel about the sessions and if there is anything they wish to focus on more astutely.
I also ask if they have any immediate goals that they would like to prioritize.
In goal-oriented sessions, I check in more frequently to ensure that both the client and I remain focused and, should they wish to shift their focus, that they recognize it is part of my responsibilities to make sure we move back to the desired goal.
Often, especially in longer term therapeutic relationships, we as clinicians can see that the client has reached their goal, however they are apprehensive about ending therapy.
This is actually a great place to go with them; why would they feel unable to handle issues in their external or internal environment without you?
Often, having this open discussion can increase empowerment and mastery.
That said, it could also highlight other issues which the client may have been apprehensive about going into within therapy and now, as the relationship seems to be ending, feels more confident in bringing these up.
In the case where the relationship is a toxic one, terminating with a client may be the best option for both of you.
It's a difficult conversation, but recall that part of the role of the therapist is to model that these discomforts can be managed.
I hope that this brief response can assist you going forward!
This is a question that is very specific to each person.
There are definitely some variables, but I can give you some general ideas for when counseling might end: When a client has met all of their goals, at least to a degree when they feel that they no longer need to work on them with the assistance of a counselor.
Sometimes a decision is made that a client is no longer benefiting from counseling at a certain time .
Sometimes clients have to remain in counseling in order to receive medication.
This depends on agency policy, but sometimes it is a requirement.
If the medication is necessary and cannot be prescribed by a primary care physician, frequency of sessions is usually decreased greatly.
I'm not sure why you are asking this question, but it is also something that is often discussed at the beginning of treatment.
Oftentimes "discharge goals" change as treatment progresses because more is known about clients, their goals, changes in their goals, and many other things.
Changes are normal, but your counselor probably has discharge goals in mind, at least generally, from the beginning.
I strongly encourage you to ask about it!
I'm sorry to hear that this has happened.
Counselors are legally and ethically required to make sure that they always put the wellbeing of their clients above their own interests.
In addition, counselor ethical rules, and the laws in just about every state, make it illegal for counselors to take advantage of a client financially.
A counselor borrowing money from a client (even if the counselor pays it back) would usually be considered to be taking advantage of the client.
There are a few options you have at this point if you can't (or don't want) to continue to try to contact him directly.
You can file a complaint with your states' regulatory board and let them know what has happened.
An investigator will then look into the situation for you.
Another option would be for you to find a different counselor who can provide you with an independent and neutral point of view to help you figure out how you want to handle this situation.
Do you want this therapist to have your credit card information? If not, then cancel the credit cards that you believe may now be accessible to this therapist.
Therapists are expected to keep very clear boundaries between the therapy work and not have other relationships, such as "friend" or "money lender" with someone who is their patient.
Therapists are never "friends" with their patients.
Letting you believe that you are the therapist's friend, is a violation of professional ethics and almost definitely, a violation of the Consumer Protection laws in your State.
Start by dropping this person as your therapist.
He has broken too many ethical standards to be worthy of offering therapy.
Think over if you'd like remaining friends with this person, whom you describe as lacking integrity and stealing from you.
If you need help getting back money from him, then contact the police and talk to a detective about what has happened so far.
The detective will advise according to the laws in your community and State, whether to file a police report, and what steps are necessary to utilize the Court system to get back your funds.
If you'd like doing future patients who may be treated to similar ways by this therapist, a favor, go online and file a complaint with the therapist's Licensing Board.
Good luck!
Therapists, regardless of the discipline (licensed professional counselor, social worker, psychologist) are expected to put the health and well-being of the client first.
Each professional discipline does have a code of ethics as well as a licensing board in each state.
In order to get licensed the therapist must agree to abide by the highest standards of conduct including state, local and federal regulations in addition to the code of conduct.
You do have the option of reporting this person to the appropriate licensing board in your state.
The other concern is if this person has unauthorized access to your credit card.
If you did not give it to him or authorize use this becomes a legal matter that you can also report to the legal authorities in your city or town.
Therapy and counseling are effective because professionals gain the trust of the client.
Betrayal of that trust by crossing boundaries and developing a relationship outside the therapist/client relationship is hurtful.
Please know that the vast majority of counselors are highly ethical individuals who put the welfare of the client first.
In case you feel some relief to know you're feeling the tone of our times.
We live with crumbling of our values which then gives rise to insecurity everywhere.
If someone doesn't know what their values are then it’s difficult to do anything, and right now every day we hear uncertainty in what used to be our basic assumptions.
More normal for noticing and feeling stressed than if you imagine life felt fine the way it is! One road to take is to accept that there are no clear roads forward.
This means to change long term goals into shorter ones.
Also, in general the more focused you can be as to your particular wishes, motivations, interests, and people about whom you care, the greater will be your sense of confidence that your personal world is as secure as it can be for right now.
And, it helps too to know that nothing lasts forever, eventually all of what is up in the air will start to land in a much more clear way.
Part of handling stress is making sure that your perception of the stress is accurate.
Sometimes stress can seem more than it really is.
One thing that I encourage my clients to do is to ask themselves, "What is this stressor really about".
Simplifying stress is a key to minimizing stress and leads to feeling less stressed out.
There are many causes for feeling stressed out.
Between a demanding job, family responsibilities, and everything else that can come up, stress becomes more and more part of our everyday life.
One of the best ways to combat the toxic effects of stress on our bodies, social lives, and overall well-being is to engage in self-care.
But not the self-care that most people think of like vacations or massages.
The best self-care is the kind that helps you live the life that you already have rather than escape it.
You see, the reason why vacations and massages don't work long term in reducing stress is that they allow you to escape from what is causing the stress without truly fixing it so you just return to what already stressed you out.
So, instead you need to find ways to help live with the stressors that you already have.
They can be things like creating a more manageable schedule, introducing healthy eating or exercising, financial planning, and even learning a few simple relaxation skills.
The key to combatting stress is to make small but consistent changes to your life so that it becomes more manageable and more enjoyable.
Something different works for each of us.
There are the outward answers of self-pampering and making your home and work environment as pleasant as possible.
A deeper level way to decrease stress is through exercise or alternative practices like yoga or tai chi.
If the stress is more deeply rooted than temporarily feeling irritated for a few days, then give yourself some time to reflect and clarify what the meaning of the stress is to you.
Self-understanding and appreciating your efforts to know yourself may decrease stress because you'll be more focused and attentive to who you are.
This will influence you overall to make good decisions for yourself and these will naturally be ones which decrease stress as much as possible.
Our body reacts to stress typically by breathing more shallowly, increasing our heart rate and tensing our muscles - so one thing that I find really effective is to try to do the opposite of that, which sends the signal to our mind that we are relaxed.
So that means, taking slower, fuller breaths and trying to relax any areas where we might be gripping our muscles.
Check out meditation apps such as 'Breathe', which can talk you through a relaxing breath exercise.
I recommend using the app daily, whether you feel stressed or not, and then also using it when you’re feeling particular moments of stress - that way you are practicing the skill when you feel calm(wish) and it'll be ready and able to help you when stress hits hard.
Learn how to meditate.
I recommend a Mindful Based Stress Reduction MBSR program.
A good start is to pay attention to some basic issues: sleep, nutrition, exercise and socially supportive relationships.
A great car on an empty tank will not get you very far.
Maybe it is a way to secretly satisfy your own wish to be or to live life gay.
Sometimes the reason for being attracted to older men is because of growing up with a father who was distant.
If you grew up having enough interaction with your dad to know you'd have liked more and didn't receive this, then maybe your longings of childhood are still active within you.
It is ok to like older men.
Just be sure you're not idealizing them, or anyone else.
Because regardless of age, a relationship is based on who the two people really are, not how we'd like imagining them.
Hi Montreal, I'm glad you wrote.
What you're experiencing is normal.
We're sexual beings.
We have a built-in desire to connect sexually with others, because it feels good, to keep procreation going, and mostly to "connect" with other people, because connecting with others makes us feel fulfilled and valuable.
Sexual desire is a healthy part of you.
Maybe your body is telling you it wants to dive into that water and taste it instead of just staring at it?
It sounds like you're beginning to explore yourself sexually, and that's okay.
At your young age, you also have another innate burning desire, and that is to know yourself.
I see both of these desires burning and competing in you.
It's a bit of a crazy time.
you want to connect with others but you're not sure who you are or what you want from them.
You want to know yourself but you can't learn about yourself in a vacuum.
It's okay to trust your instincts.
It's okay to connect sexually with others, as long as you're preventing disease and pregnancy and you know how to protect your boundaries.
But even as I write this, I think maybe I'm being controlling and overprotective of you; it's your body and you're in charge of what happens to it! (But I do want you to be safe.
whatever that means to you).
Maybe talk to someone you trust.
With each encounter you have with other people (sexual or not), you will learn more about yourself and what you want, both sexually and just in relationship or friendship.
You will develop a sense of who you are.
Have you tried to get to know yourself sexually?
This is a super place to start, and knowing how your own body works can give you confidence when you eventually connect with others.
When you explore your own body, what feels good? What brings you to orgasm?
I wish you well as you explore both who you are and how it feels to connect with others safely.
Writing about your high school masturbation times with your friend, is itself a form of acknowledging the full picture of who you are.
You are doing well to reflect on your actions in the truthful way you are doing.
Also positive is that you have perspective, that at your age and social maturity, you were innocently doing something that in adult terms, would be considered in a negative way.
Maybe through your more mature mind's eye of today, you can feel some compassion and understanding for your high school self.
This way your sense of self-judgment may start to dissolve a little bit more.
Hello, I commend you for your courage in taking a look at the role alcohol has in your life.
It sounds like you're concerned about what happens when you drink too much and I suspect you already know the answer to your question about whether you have a problem or not.
I imagine you would like to stop feeling guilty and would like to avoid cheating on your boyfriend or other negative consequences and maybe have a fear of being or becoming an "addict" or "alcoholic.
You might have a "problem" but that does not necessarily mean that you are an addict.
I don't have information to know if "addiction" or "dependence" or other words would best describe where you are with drinking, but it sounds like it's begun to have some negatives, so forgive me using words like addict, dependence and so on.
I mean it more as a road map than a diagnosis.
The feedback I'm writing here is very general and doesn't address physical dependence and many other factors that might apply to your situation.
One of the ways to think about substance (mis)use is to think of addiction as a disease of avoidance.
Let me repeat that: it is a disease of avoidance.
Your ultimate task in living a balanced life is to figure out what you're avoiding and develop other ways to manage those feelings, experiences, and so on.
And of course, along the way, you may want to look at triggers, situations, biological vulnerability, social pressures, coping skills, relapse prevention planning and so on.
Depending on where you are in your drinking, you might very well benefit from expertise and support.
Remember also that alcohol depresses our central nervous system and disinhibits us.
That means that alcohol is often a substance of choice to relax, destress, calm down, etc.
Also, it allows feelings, thoughts, and behaviors that we usually inhibit to be expressed.
If you were unfaithful and often angry, that's your first signpost.
For angry drinkers, it is often true that you don't drink and then get angry, you drink in order to express anger.
I recommend you find someone you can speak frankly with, who is knowledgeable about addiction.
Wishing you the best health and wellness.
Guilt is a narcissistic, self-indulgent focus on me, me, me; it's best not to keep it in negative light; What does that mean? Well, it stems from mankind having an animal nature, and a spiritual nature;In most societies today, the animal nature is looked down upon, seen as egregious and something to be put away;If I may say to you, it is necessary and important (if you wish to end an experience called "guilt") to NOT regard your animal nature as negative, but to accept that you have it, and acknowledge it; The more openly a man or woman acknowledges they're animal-side, the quicker one may subdue it;Try giving your animal nature a name, and talk to it like a cute pet.
I offer that getting a professional assessment is in order to look at your relationship with alcohol.
Speaking with a licensed therapist will help you figure out if indeed you have a problem or not.
I would say the first question you should ask yourself is why you are drinking? The second would be why you feel the need to drink in excess? It may be due to a life event or the crowd you are running with.
Either way a therapist will be able to help you through this as you already made the first step in admitting you are having a difficult time.
Usually when someone asks if they have a problem, they believe they do have a problem! The first step is to understand your own theory and definition as to what problem you feel you have.
Some possibilities are feeling unhappy in the relationship to your boyfriend, not having enough discussion between the two of you, not feeling cared about by your boyfriend, not liking your boyfriend.
Did you grow up in a family in which the grownups drank to the point of excess at the times they felt stressed?Family modeling of how to handle problems may have left you no knowing how to handle stress except to drink to excess.
Ask yourself what it is you feel guilty of doing? The guilt may point you in a good direction if it is your sense of self-esteem telling you to find better ways of managing your life.
Do you drink alone or together with friends?Try defining your specific reasons for drinking because this is the first step to know how to handle the situation differently.
More information would be needed for me to accurately answer this question, such as your age, whether you live with your dad or not, and what other family members live in the household.
Something like this, alcoholism, is a whole family disease.
In other words, family members often unknowingly contribute to the alcoholism and enable the alcoholic to continue the destructive behavior.
First of all, you can make your dad do anything, and constantly nagging him or begging him to stop is just going to make him defensive and make this worse.
Nobody can change another person.
What you can do is change how you react to him and the things that you and other family members do for him.
Research codependency.
There is a great book called Codependent No More.
There are a lot of articles on the internet that you can read.
In short, you have to stop enabling him.
Like I said, you cannot control him, but you can control yourself.
This means do not buy his alcohol.
Do not make it easy for him to get.
Do not bail him out of jail when he gets arrested.
He needs to be responsible for himself.
This may mean losing his job or losing his driver's license.
This may mean that he loses his family if he doesn't stop.
What you and your family can do is set boundaries about what you will put up with.
It is his choice to drink, but it is your choice to put up with the behaviors of his drinking.
A lot of people go into rehab because their spouse said if they don't then they are getting a divorce.
If you are an adult and you don't live with your dad, then the best thing you can do for him is STOP doing things for him.
If you are a child who lives at home with him, then this could be a case for child protective services.
In my state this is called DHS.
A report is made to this organization for child abuse or neglect.
Substance abuse in the home qualifies.
Of course, alcohol is legal and when consumed in moderation, there is no problems.
The problem will be the result of his alcohol consumption.
Does he drive with children in the car while intoxicated? Is he left to care for minors while in an intoxicated state? Are there any domestic violence issues due to his drinking? This could be a reason for the authorities to step in.
You can look for a local meeting for family members of alcoholics.
They are similar to the AA meetings that an alcoholic should go to, but are for the family members.
They can help you.
Your dad needs to be aware that he has a problem and be willing to make some changes in order for him to be motivated to stop.
Often times individuals will be forced to stop when they were not ready.
Remember we can not ever make someone do something they do not want to do.
There needs to be at least a little willingness on the other party to make some changes.
I would encourage you to reach out to your family or other loved ones and have a conversation with your dad regarding your concerns.
Hi.
Good for you in planning ahead to do what's healthiest for your baby (and yourself).
That's a great first step! It's also good that you are able to identify that it's not always a physical need that's driving the addiction.
For the next steps, I would suggest trying to figure out when the psychological cravings for a cigarette occur.
The psychological (or mental) cravings are usually based out of habit, such as having a cigarette after a meal.
And if you're consciously trying to quit, you'll find the craving starts with simply thinking about having a cigarette, then usually moves on to thinking about how good it made you feel, etc.
, etc.
Well, if I'm on a diet and I continue to let myself think about the ice cream sitting in the freezer, eventually I'll give in and eat it.
You're going to have thoughts about smoking a cigarette.
That's normal and, for the most part, out of your control.
But you choose whether or not to CONTINUE thinking and dwelling about it after that initial thought.
That's what you would have to work on changing.
When you have that initial thought, acknowledge it ("Ok, I kind of want a cigarette now.
), but then change the thoughts that typically follow.
Distract yourself, think about something else, do something else, whatever it takes to get your mind off of that cigarette.
I've suggested to clients before that they should plan these scenarios out ahead of time so they already know what they're going to do when the time comes.
Write down when you usually have the craving for a cigarette and then write down new thoughts or things to do to get your mind off of it.
Eventually, it will become easier and easier to brush off that initial thought until you no longer have it.
Best of luck, and you have a really great motivator to quit - your baby!
First off, I would like to congratulate you on making the decision to stop smoking.
The next thing I want to share is that there are so many different ways to kick the habit.
Some people find solace in groups, while others prefer to see a counselor about this individually.
Remember, that the crux of addiction is feeling one way and using a substance or thing to feel a different way.
My suggestion is to find an addiction counselor and create an individualized plan together to help you stop smoking .
Your chances of stopping smoking are much higher when you have professional support and a plan to work on outside of your sessions.
While smoking can be incredibly difficult to quit doing, it's not impossible, so the first thing to NOT lose is hope.
And certainly planning to have a baby can be exactly the catalyst that one needs to motivate to complete this sort of task.
But, as I said, it still won't be easy, even with the motivation there.
There is a definite physical component, but it's great that you can acknowledge the psychological addiction that exists.
It would be helpful to dive into what that psychological need actually is, as it can vary from person to person (whereas the physical addiction doesn't as much, and therefor can be helped through gums and patches and inhalers, etc.
) Exploring and getting to the root of the psychological need can help you to determine what is going on for you psychologically, and how else you can meet those needs of yours, perhaps in much healthier and more adaptive ways, that also help you to feel really good about yourself.
While replacement is not always advocated, having psychological needs is not something to be ashamed of, but rather nurtured.
It's very admirable that you are trying to stop smoking for the sake of your health and your child's health.
The mental aspect of quitting a drug can and usually is the hardest part.
First, it can be helpful to change the focus of your thinking so you are focusing on the healthy behaviors you will start/improve rather than only focusing on the behavior that you are trying to stop.
The reason for this is that our brains hear the main topic of our thoughts.
That is, when you tell yourself "quit smoking, quit smoking, quit smoking", your brain hears "smoking, smoking, smoking".
So we need to put together a self-care plan that addresses your thinking, emotions, and behaviors (nutrition, physical activity, and other stress reducing activities).
The idea is to have an effective plan in place to both prevent yourself from feeling intense stress (which increases cravings) and to have a well-placed plan for when the intense cravings inevitably present themselves.
And lastly, and possibly the most important; You have to believe you deserve to be the healthiest version of yourself.
Think about the times when you are most vulnerable to smoke (stressful situations, after meals, when drinking, social situations, etc.
).
The use of affirmations is also an important resource as what we say to ourselves effects our mood.
Repeatedly telling yourself "i am healthy, "i am getting healthier, "my lungs are becoming clear and healthy" or other affirmations like this.
Even if you don't believe them at first, continue saying them.
This step is important to improve cognitive flexibility which trains your brain to be open to change.
Think about activities that you like to do or that you would like to try and replace smoking with those activities.
Any activity that can make you laugh (time with friends, watching comedies, etc.
) will evoke a calming response because when we feel happy, we typically don't feel stressed out simultaneously.
Breaking any habit is no easy feat.
Cutting down or cutting out cigarettes is very challenging, and there aren't any one size fits all solutions.
Fortunately, there are a lot of tricks and tools that you can use to stop smoking.
Many habits that we have are paired habits.
If we do one thing, then we will do the other thing.
Think about the activities that you do when smoking and try to pair those activities with another activity other than smoking.
For instance, many people smoke while they drive.
Consider planning another activity to do while driving.
(It might not be driving for you, but you get the idea! It might be taking a walk instead of smoking on your break at work.
Create distance between you and the habit you are trying to break.
This approach could be used in a variety of different ways.
If you smoke first thing in the morning, consider leaving your cigarettes in a different room in your home.
Walking the extra couple of feet could help you decide not to smoke.
Leave your credit or debit cards at home and carry less emergency cash than a pack of cigarettes.
With this strategy, you are trying to create some distance between you the cigarettes so that you have to jump through extra hoops to get them.
Consider cutting back before cutting out.
If you are smoking 10 cigarettes a day, try smoking 9.
Then cut back to 8 and so on.
Having a plan to reduce harm may be more sustainable than cutting things out altogether.
You could also talk to your doctor about the safety of nicotine patches.
If you aren't already pregnant, this could be a great resource to help boost your success.
Focus on what you are gaining instead of what you are loosing.
You may be losing cigarettes, but you are gaining money, health, taste buds, an increased sense of smell, lung capacity, a healthy baby etc.
You could plan small rewards/ treats with the money you save from decreasing cigarette purchases.
I recommend making these purchases small and frequent to keep up the momentum rather than waiting for a big payout a couple of months down the road.
Good luck! Cutting out cigarettes will be good for you and your baby.
Hopefully you feel you have the time to follow this procedure.
For a week - log when you smoke - time, place and activity.
Plan on cutting back 10% for a week.
Cut out the easiest times.
Next change the times and and activities for 3 days - consider water or candy or gum if it is very tough.
Cut another 10% each week until you are done.
It is very good news that you realize the risks of smoking cigarettes while pregnant and are willing to stop.
Thinking about smoking is a typical and frequent reaction to being without the substance.
Be creative with what you know about yourself to distract you when this psychological urge comes up.
My suggestions are to imagine smoking if you find this would relieve the sense of wanting to smoke.
Or, do the opposite and remind yourself of all the good reasons to not smoke.
Also, since you're planning pregnancy then ask your partner for ideas on how to make the psychological feeling to want to smoke, feel less intense.
Another suggestion is that your partner is your texting buddy to stop smoking.
With AA groups, a sponsor is always available for the alcoholic who feels distress about the urge to drink.
Having a trusted and caring person to tell about your problem helps in many situations.
Maybe it will help you to stop smoking.
Good luck!
Quitting smoking can be difficult.
It's also true that there is part that is sometimes a physical need and a part that is often connected to emotions in some way.
From the way that you wrote this, it sounds like you may have been able to stop smoking physically, but still have cravings.
One thing you can do is talk with your primary care physician or OB/GYN about whether there is anything that you can take to help with the cravings.
Sometimes that can very helpful.
As far as the more emotional or mental piece, these things come to mind:Sometimes a crucial part is looking at the habit of smoking and seeing what else you can do to keep your mind and hands busy.
There are sometimes toys, like those available at Office Playground, that may help to keep you physically occupied.
There can also be changes or additions to your routine because I imagine that smoking took up a great deal of your time.
Maybe when you have the temptation to get up and go to have a cigarette, you could have several other things that you can get up and do instead.
The list is endless, but a few examples could be doing some physical exercise (with the permission of your doctor) just for a couple minutes because that could help with the craving as well, completing a puzzle, learning a new activity that requires using your hands (painting or knitting, perhaps).
Another piece of quitting smoking is often linked to anxiety or other emotional changes, perhaps irritability.
Depending on what it is that you may be feeling, learning other strategies to use can be helpful as well.
This can all be quite overwhelming and a very big life change.
I would recommend that if things do not become easier for you, consider talking with a therapist.
Then you could not only have some more strategies or ideas directly related to you, but you could have very direct support for what you are trying to do.
I give you a lot of credit!
It can be challenging to quite anything once we set our mind to it.
We often crave the things more that we know we can not or should not have.
With that being said I would encourage you to become aware of the chemical dependency part that cigarettes have on your brain and your body.
Then make yourself aware of the mental part the habit part.
Often times people will engage in smoking again just from the mere social aspect of it.
Make yourself aware of these and devise a plan of the things you will do instead of going out on smoke breaks, or the ritual of smoking in the car on on the back porch.
There are plenty of support groups out there to help with this as well.
Smoking cessation is a good resource.
Studies have proven that addiction affects the brain, there are many coping skills that addicts use to enable their addiction as well.
I would recommend that you speak with someone abut your relationship and your concerns.
Not only so you can have more clarity in the situation but we often tend to gravitate around or toward the same types of individuals.
Being more aware of your relationship will help you in the future when re-engaging in personal relationships.
Your friend needs to admit they have a problem.
If not no matter how many pills you take they will find a way to get more.
It is also a federal offense to take someone else's medication so if you did take it she could have you arrested.
In other instances it can be more dangerous to take medication away than slowly tapering off of them.
Like anything we put into our system our tolerance builds up and can effect us in different ways.
I would listen to her and discuss why she feels that she needs to be on the medications rather than playing bad cop in this situation.
Encourage her to get help and let her know you re there for her.
Your good intentions to help your friend stay clean, are very caring about her.
Unless your friend feels like stopping pills, taking them away will mean she finds them some place else.
The problem that anyone who is addicted to pills has, is that the person is psychologically and at least with xanax, physically addicted.
Taking pills has basically become a standard part of your friend's life.
Her problem is bigger than your ability to care.
If you haven't already done so, tell your friend directly about your opinion on the way she is using pills.
This is not a guarantee that she'll stop.
It isa way of you showing that you care about her.
Offering love and advice are the only things you can do for her.
Meanwhile, knowing she is hurting herself is probably hurting you.
Be sure to keep a sense of balance within yourself.
Offer your concern and know she is the one who must decide to stop using.
Hello! Thank you for your question.
I have a worked with many people who have become addicted to benzodiazepines, like Clonazepam.
It is a difficult road for people who are trying to become clean.
It is also a very difficult road for those who love the person and are trying to be supportive.
During those times, it is important to remember to take care of yourself, too.
As for taking your friend's pills, my concern would be the legal ramifications that you could face should you ever be caught with someone else's prescription medication, and especially these types of medications.
Our laws have become much more strict surrounding prescription drug sales and possession due to the increase in prescription drug abuse.
In addition, people who are in active addiction are likely to find some other means to get their drug, so it would do little to help the overall problem.
I don't know about your friend's family situation, but they may be a better route to take if you are concerned about your friend.
They may already be involved, but with your help you may be able to convince your friend to go to treatment willingly.
That is usually better.
In many states, there are also involuntary committal processes where a person's family may be able to convince a court to force the person into treatment.
This varies from state to state.
If your friend's family is not aware of this option, it may be something to look into.
It usually does take a relative, or a medical provider, to begin this process if it is available.
I hope this was helpful, and I wish you and your friend well.
It is challenging to see one's parents age and to cope with the new demands.
Your mom means a lot to you, and that is why you get easily frustrated.
I'm guessing that it is not that she is making you do work or that her expectations are non-important to you because if that were the case, you would not feel any guilt.
Accepting the new stage will help you cope with the changes.
Take a deep breath every time you feel frustrated and think of the good times you shared with your mom before her getting Alzheimer's.
Remember that your mom as she was is no longer and that she has reverted to a more delicate phase.
Also, schedule time for yourself and do things that help you relax.
Caretaking of an elderly parent can take a toll on you, and it is essential to incorporate self-care.
Finally, look for an Alzheimer's support group in your area that will help you connect with other people going through the same thing.
You are a good daughter, and your mom is lucky to have you in her life.
There is some great advice here that can really help, but you need some direct support.
Please find a caregiver support organization, a grief group and an individual therapist to help you during this trying time.
Your mom may not know what she is saying, or mean the awful things she says, but that doesn't make it hurt less.
Please take care of yourself and gt some help!
It's a good question man, and it must be terrible to see your mother in the state she's in.
Understand that Alzheimer's is due to under-performing function of kidneys, adrenals, and connective tissue strengtheners; all of which may be corrected with appropriate protocols that are inexpensive and generally simple to follow.
Imagine it like a flower that is not fed properly: A once, beautifully blossom flower APPEARS to be wilting, but it's life-force, spirit, and essence remain fully there and present.
And your mom hears you.
Let's clean her out, and see her smile return.
Make sure that you continue to treat your Mom with respect.
However, you also need to make sure that you have time away from her so that the stress of caring for her doesn't overwhelm you.
Balance is the key!
You have the answer already.
It is not your mom's fault.
Always remember that in spite of the disease, that human being you call mom is still there.
To cope with the feelings of frustration, anger, and guilt, practice accepting what is at this time.
Bring peace to these feelings and commit to move on to provide your mom love.
If you can, use mindfulness meditation to stay focus and calm your brain.
It is very difficult to move from being the child to be the care giver as in your situation.
Your mother's behavior as you describe it is a part of this disease.
As the disease progresses and she is less aware of the present including her surroundings and who she is speaking to.
Your response of anger and frustration are understandable.
It is also a part of the grief process as you see you mother slipping away mentally.
In the moment that you feel the anger step away, take some deep breathes and give yourself time to calm down.
Then return to whatever you were doing with her.
When you feel the frustration and anger building inside you have that be a trigger for you to remember a feeling that you want to experience instead of anger, frustration and guilt, for example understanding.
Then say that word to yourself as you take deep breaths.
But know that this is normal for caregivers/family members to have these reactions because it is also an emotional roller coaster for you.
Even though it is normal it is still good to try to respond differentyl and I commend you for doing that.
You also may want to look for a Caregiver Support group which will help you hear from others who also respond this way.
Let me first say that I am sorry you are going through this.
Yes, this is a symptom of an ugly disease, but that does not make experiencing it any easier.
If your mother was a sweet and understanding lady, I am sure this change in personality feels awful! On the other hand, if your relationship with her has always been difficult this can definitely open up old wounds and anger.
I have walked alongside many families as they care for a loved one with Alzheimer's disease.
It is unfortunately common to see mothers become cruel and mean toward their daughters.
In your case, it sounds like she is not directing her anger at just you.
While this may feel less personal, I am sure it makes finding supportive care for her very difficult.
I have several quick tips that might help you cope with this situation.
Stay tuned in to your level of anger and frustration.
If you can limit the amount of time you or anyone else is with your mother you can limit the caregiver burnout.
It is completely NORMAL to feel what you are feeling! However, these are the feelings that can lead to acting out and abuse when not acknowledged.
It doesn't sound like this is the case for you, but healthy boundaries and exercising respite will help with your feelings of guilt as well.
So, rotate care as much as possible.
If you find yourself arguing with your mom, STOP.
Don't worry, we have all been there before.
No need to feel guilty, but this only serves to agitate someone.
None of us enjoys being wrong and getting into an argument.
For those of us who are able to logically engage with others, sometimes this type of interaction is necessary.
Alzheimer's disease has robbed your mother of her logic, therefore arguing with her will only make matters worse.
Take care of yourself and seek support.
Support groups and counseling are a great way to tend to your needs during this long journey.
Caregiving can be overwhelming, lonely and heartbreaking.
You don't have to go through this alone.
From your initial description, I would say that your mother is "Maloriented".
In this stage of Alzheimer's individuals tend to be blaming and difficult to deal with.
They may often hide or throw things away and then blame family members for this.
In addition, if they are incontinent, they may blame a leaky roof or something else when they are wet.
You are correct that this is not her fault, but often for family members this does not make it any easier for you to cope.
I strongly suggest that you learn communication strategies that will help you to communicate with your mother in a way that lets her work through the difficulties associated with the disease.
I always suggest Validation techniques to family members.
In addition, you need to give yourself some kind attention and take time out from your circumstances as needed.
You need to be able to center yourself and come to acceptance that this is your mother's illness that is the problem, not her and certainly not you.
Yes, certainly your mom's difficulty in having meaningful conversations with people results from the Alzheimer's disease process which weakens her brain function.
Feeling a sense of guilt in relation to a parent, is pretty common for everyone.
This is because as little kids and babies, we had a strong reliance on a parent and believing every word they sad and wishing to follow each action they ask or demand, was for the benefit of our own survival.
One way of coping with your feeling of guilt is to examine it.
Ask what it is you're feeling guilty about?Chances are that your sense of guilt is less due to what you're currently saying or doing to help your mom.
Very likely, your guilt feeling is awakening the sense of obligation that you and all of us feel toward a parent simply because parents seem to have unquestionable power when we are very young.
After all, you're thoughtful enough to write a question, so chances are great that you're already actively involved in caring for your mom.
Good observation on your part, to distinguish that your feelings in relation to your mom are not necessarily connected to the way she handles her part of the relation toward you.
Has your mom usually ignored your opinions and wishes in relating to you?If prior to the onset of Alzheimer's, she never examined her way of relating to you, and if both of you have never had an open conversation about your sense of feeling hurt by her attitudes and manner with you, then the relationship between you and your mom will change in ways other than rational dialogue.
She may continue ignoring or overlooking your wishes because she's been stuck in this attitude for most of your life.
The good news for you about this is realizing that who you are and your way of relating to your mom, has very little to do with the way she relates to you.
This is a more profound disappointment because it shows that her disconnect from you has been for longer than when the Alzheimer's began.
You can however, feel a little more free knowing that you're not deserving of being ignored.
There are many conflicting emotions and tasks that arise when one becomes a caretaker for their parent.
Expressing positive emotions to her may help re-frame your thoughts and have a fresh perspective on the situation.
Additionally, Visual cues like pictures and notes can also be helpful for those who suffer from disorders like Alzheimer's and Dementia, as it offers a "Trigger" for memory, helping to ease the doors to communication.
Finding support in other family members, or a therapist familiar with elder care issues may be helpful as well.
If the only way the relationship you have with your mother feels "okay" is when she is the only one who makes decisions concerning your life, then this only seems ok.
In fact it is not okay for one person to be the authority for another person unless the one for whom this is being done, does not have their own ability to think for themselves.
Separating your own wishes and way of handling life matters, from your mother's point of view, may be difficult.
First, realize you need to get familiar with feeling at ease with the idea of deciding matters for yourself.
You'll need practice until you feel comfortable.
Unless, if you've been thinking through decisions you'd like to make and the idea of your mother's anger is the only point which stopped you, then you may almost instantly start living in a liberated way of running your own life.
Basically, it is right and fair for you to have the chance to live your life the way you feel is best.
Be prepared that your mother may disagree with you and that her disagreement is not a reason itself to not do what you believe is in your best interest.
Having someone who's outside the situation and, even more so, with knowledge and experience in human behavior and relationship dynamics such as a counselor can do wonders in helping us feel less alone in frustrating situations like the one you're currently stuck in with your mother.
A professional can also assist you in finding some assertiveness techniques, communication strategies, and coping skills to help you find your voice and stand your ground in a way that feels most authentic to you.
In a healthy parent-child dynamic, there comes a normal developmental shift when, as the child reaches each new stage of maturity and responsibility, the parent backs off to provide a more supportive role instead of directive role.
We call this "redefining relationships.
(We also do it with our friendships and colleagues here and there over time as needed).
It's absolutely vital.
Sounds like your mom may have missed that memo.
Like many parents, she may feel your behavior and choices is a direct reflection of her.
Or that her role as your mother allows her greater latitude than it should.
Or like many other people in general, that her way is the ONLY way.
Regardless, this is YOUR life.
And as far as we know, it's not a dress rehearsal.
You certainly don't want to wake up some 50 years from now regretful or resentful.
That being said, there are certainly ways to show her love and respect while doing what makes you happy.
I would encourage you to Google therapists near you whose bios resonate with you and what you're looking for and start on a the journey towards a new chapter of freedom and hopefully a deeper, more satisfying mother-daughter relationship for both of you.
It can be very difficult for children who have lost a parent to then see their other parent moving forward with anyone, so I understand how this change is even more upsetting to you.
And.
your father and your friend have clearly established a friendship and fallen in love.
Did you see this coming? I hope they didn't hide it from you.
If they did, maybe this is the issue? It would be a legitimate one.
But in the end, your father, and your friend, are adults who are free to fall in love with whomever they wish and hopefully they can count on the support of people who trust and love them.
Could there be blessings here you haven't seen yet? It seems you love this person who is like a sister; could it be a good thing that her place in your life is more permanent?Ask yourself these questions.
"What is the worst part of this?" "What do I fear losing?" "What do I fear at all?" "What is the evidence that this will happen?" The answers might surprise you.
Your children will follow your lead.
If you are supportive of their grandfather, they will follow suit.
Hopefully you can grieve the change, know that your mother would likely want both of them to be happy, and embrace the blessings that come with having this woman close to you in a new way.
I wish you the best.
How are you measuring whether or not your dad understands your wish?Your dad understanding your wish does not mean he will necessarily follow through with what you want.
Based on what you describe about your relationship to the woman in question, your discomfort with the idea of your dad marrying your friend, is reasonable.
Have the conversation with your dad that includes your viewpoint, and also ask him for his impression of your feelings.
Its even possible he already has considered your feelings and hasn't yet told you.
It is also possible that a conversation on the subject, as well as your dad following through with his decision to marry your best friend, may develop in a very positive way.
Part of the current uneasiness you feel may be from fear of how a change in circumstances and introducing new relationship dynamics might feel.
Given that the person who died was your mom, maybe your emotions are not yet ready seeing your dad with a replacement spouse.
Try to see the situation from the point of everyone, including yourself, who is involved in this major change.
Maybe having a family discussion about acceptance and readiness to accept a new partner for your dad, would open new empathy for all of these family members.
That's intense.
This person moving from a friend of yours to both a friend of yours and, in a sense, your step mom is a lot.
I wonder if you have let your dad know what's going through your mind with this and how it is affecting you.
I can imagine that could feel awkward and emotional.
Still, getting him to understand might be as simple as letting him know, in your words, how this feels from your view as well as what you wish.
It may not change the outcome (he may still marry her), but your thoughts will not go unsaid and opens it up for conversation.
Best luck!
It is understandable that it's very hard for you to hear daily complaints from your mother regarding the caregiving of your niece.
You cannot change your mother's feelings and responsibilities, which could create feelings of frustration and helplessness.
It must be equally hard for your mother to assume full responsibility for your niece at a time where your sister cannot take care of her.
This type of responsibility usually produces an enormous amount of stress and pressure because your mother and niece would both need to adapt to this new relationship, living situation, and the feeling of being "abandoned.
Not knowing the history of your relationship with your mother and how you respond to each other in times of need, it may be difficult to fight the right recommendation on how to deal with this situation.
Nonetheless, it is not easy to have to face daily complaints and you may have to set a healthy balance between empathy and boundary setting with your mother and some personal boundaries for yourself.
It is likely that your mother's "complaints" may be her desperate cry for help because she does not know how to cope with stress or how to ask for the right kind of support.
In this case, you could calmly and respectfully tell her the next time you hear her complain, "This must be very difficult for you because I hear the stress in your voice almost everyday.
It's very hard for me to hear you feeling so overwhelmed.
I feel helpless in this situation and would like to suggest that it might be helpful for you to seek some professional help and support to deal with such a big matter of importance.
When empathy and understanding is communicated, recipients are usually more open because they hear and feel the caring behind it and are more likely to seek additional help.
After sharing this message of empathy and encouragement to seek help, the next step is to protect yourself by explaining to your mother where your limits are so that she understands what she can expect from you.
This means that you can decide the kind of support or help you are willing to give your mother and/or niece that is within your ability to provide without feeling overwhelmed.
This could involve inviting them to dinner occasionally, taking them out to see a movie or inviting your niece over to give your mother respite.
You could then say to her if she complains again, "I cannot change the way you feel in this situation and I encourage you to seek professional advice about that but what I could do is .
(explain what you could do to help).
Then one day when life between you and mom feels calm, tell your mom that you aren't able to listen to her complaints about your sister.
The truth exists whether or not it is acknowledged.
Bu acknowledging what feels real and necessary in your life, you are helping your mom see what she may not like to see and what nevertheless is right in front of her.
There is no good reason or good to come of hiding your own truth about not wishing to continue listening to your mom complain.
This sounds stressful.
You mentioned that you want to learn how to avoid them.
I'm not sure whether you want to avoid them overall or if you would like to ask your mom to maybe only talk to you about it for a few minutes about your niece in each conversation that you have.
Maybe you can connect your mom with some support.
It sounds as if she has lost part of herself and/or is very stressed out and in talking with you about it because she trusts you enough for you to be someone she can speak openly, you are becoming stressed because of things that you cannot directly change.
This is the presumptive based on the amount of information that you posted, but it sounds like there is a bit of a circle of stress here.
I also wonder who you could talk with when you are stressed.
It may be helpful to see a local mental health professional to help redefine some boundaries so you can have the type of relationship with your mother that you want without necessarily feeling stressed out by it every day.
For how long has the arguing been occurring and does it relate to a specific incident or circumstance in your relationship?Arguing due to temporary stress and feeling lost or uncertain, is different than the two of you rarely agree on what foods to buy at the grocery store.
In both temporary or longer term arguing, ask yourself if the points being argued are core principles of yours or matters which you can accept in service to the benefits you feel from the marriage.
If your core principles are rejected, you have been arguing for an extended amount of time, and the value of the marriage doesn't outweigh this, then seriously consider if ending the relationship is a better option than to stay in it.
This is a fantastic question.
In one sentence, I would say the following:Recognize that while you and your partner probably have common interests and areas of commonality, you are separate people, each with different wants, wishes, and desires, if you consider a diagram of two overlapping circles, they may share perhaps a third of the circle with overlap to indicate commonality (could be more or less) and then there are parts of the circles that are not overlapping, indicating separate interests.
As for ways that may strengthen any relationship, even the great ones, this is what came to mind.
There are certainly more specific unique answers or elements for different people as far as the details, but here are some general ideas: Try to have at least 15 minutes a week where you are spending time together and not problem-solving.
Realize that listening to your partner does not mean that you are agreeing with them, it just means that you are saying that you hear where they are coming fromLearn to hold on to your own wants, wishes, and desires while also recognizing those of your partner.
Set boundaries for what is and isn't acceptable behavior during an argument or difficult discussion.
Discuss how having important discussions can be anxiety-producing and consider having an understanding that if one of you (or both of you) feels overwhelmed, you can take a timeout for a certain amount of time.
For example, you may say "okay, I'm feeling really stressed about this right now.
Let's discuss it in an hour.
And at that time, go back to the discussionConsider what your partner's top three or four complaints about you may be.
Check in with them and see how accurate you are.
If you see validity in their responses, consider whether or not you may want to make changesDiscover what makes your partner feel loved, valued, appreciated, or specialRelationships are always in progress and constantly changing.
Some anxiety around change is typical.
Being able to effectively discuss the anxiety and actually listen to one another without being defensive, name calling, finger-pointing, or asking each other to change is a true gift.
You may enjoy this quote:"Connection is the energy that is created between people when they feel seen, heard, and valued; when they can give and receive without judgment.
What a great question! Marriage (or any long-term committed romantic relationship) is never easy.
Ups & downs, doubts and fights are a part of it just the same as the wonderful, tender, blissful moments of connection.
Recognizing that hardships are normal and something to work through is a big part of the healthy attitude partners in lasting relationships share.
Some degree of conflict is not something to be scared of or a sign it's time to break up as long as all parties involved feel respected.
Expressing your needs and wants in a respectful, not accusing manner will increase the chances that your loved one will actually listen, empathize with your perspective and will be more open to finding solutions to your problems together.
Working as a team to find solutions to problems you encounter is a much better approach than trying to persuade your partner that you are right, while they are most certainly wrong.
Shutting your partner out or allowing resentment and contempt to creep into your relationships is definitely a warning sign that things may not be going the way you want anymore.
As long as you both agree that you want to be in that relationship and you have a growth mindset ("we will learn from this and grow together to be a better couple in the end"), the foundation of your partnership is strong.
What else? Making time for each other, whether it's being playful, having fun or enjoying intimate moments together is also an important part of ensuring a good balance of positive to negative experiences, that will only strenghten your bond.
Good luck!
A resource I think is helpful to learn more about "what makes a good marriage" and steps toward doing so is Dr.
John Gottman's book: "Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work.
Dr.
Gottman is a leader in this field and has done extensive studies with couples to determine what behaviors are key in making a marriage work and what behaviors could predict divorce.
I think this book might be a good start if you're wanting to learn more about how to have a long lasting relationship.
It's surprising how many folks talk too much on the subject;It's the same three things that make all relationships work: Honesty, Trust, Respect.
Thank you for your question.
A good Marriage is one that takes hard work and commitment.
Being in a good marriage does not always mean good times because let's face it; we are dealing with 2 unique individuals with differences.
A good spouse or partner knows to be patient and accepting.
Knowing each other's strengths and imperfections and working with them to lift each other is how you strengthen your love for one another.
A good spouse sacrifices their needs to see the other person happy.
Don't get me wrong, that also means that it is important to have alone time to re-charge and re-focus our purpose in the marriage.
In all, there is not a magic recipe for a successful marriage, but with time, work and purpose one can have a happy one.
In truth, no one really has the answer to your question, otherwise wouldn't we all have a "good" marriage? Also, what even is a "good marriage?" What is it that YOU want from a marriage, a relationship, a partner, and what your other-half also wants for themselves, is going to be what defines all of this, because every relationship is different.
And in answering that "what YOU want" question, you might actually stumble upon what would make for a healthy relationship: vulnerability.
You will have to be vulnerable to be able to explore what you really want, and listen to what your partner really wants, as that kind of processing can be uncomfortable.
But, with vulnerability comes intimacy, and in most opinions, there is much of a relationship if there isn't much intimacy.
In my mind, a healthy marriage has two participants, meaning both people participate equally in the intimate connection of marriage.
An unequal participation comes in many forms, such as one person checking out of conversations when it becomes emotional, or speaking over and for each other in these conversations.
Couples should strive for engagement and support, but doing it in a way that works for each person individually.
I hope this helps.
I appreciate your question.
The answer of what makes a "good marriage" are as varied as there are marriages.
Basically, similarity, like mindedness in beliefs and values, makes a good marriage.
The best chance of getting along with someone on a longterm basis is when two people see life and the world in similar ways.
Even though "opposites attract" this is a short lived dynamic which breaks apart when there aren't enough similarities in common between the partners.
This answer varies based on you relationship.
However, I do believe their are some basic fundamental areas that are beneficial for a healthy marriage: Effective, Communication, Trust, Love/Passion, Loyalty, Unconditional Positive Regard.
Everyone has their favorite qualities they feel best fit a marriage.
However, these are what I think are great starting points.
Hi Prattville, I'm sorry this is happening to you.
You need support right now, and yes, you need answers.
She is in denial and is trying to hide the truth, to protect herself.
This is a natural behaviour.
You don't indicate whether she wants the marriage, or is planning to leave.
Which way you go from here depends in part on the answer to that question.
If she wants the marriage, you certainly have the right to say "I need answers to all my questions".
Giving you the information she needs has to be (if she wants the marriage) more important than protecting herself.
I would support your right to advocate for all the information you need in order to feel secure or make decisions.
She may fear that the truth will turn you away.
If you want to, you can reassure her that you want the marriage no matter what the truth is.
If the marriage is to survive, it needs openness.
If, on the other hand, she's planning to end the marriage, then you might want to resign yourself to the fact that you may never get the information you seek.
You are better off, in that case, seeking support from friends and family rather than beating on a closed door.
Your wife has some decisions to make.
Try to give her a bit of time to make them.
You can patiently say "I know this thing is happening.
Talk to me so we can deal with it together.
I want to move forward but I need the truth.
Only time (and a good therapist, if she is willing and wants the marriage) will tell which way this one will go.
Individually, you can seek professional help as well.
Thanks for your question.
Communication is essential between couples and often times gets neglected in relationships.
Working with your husband to help him become a better listener and consequently, a better communicator is going to take some work from your part.
You have to calmly be able to express to him your concern and how it affects you.
Very important is that you do it in a loving and non-threatening way.
Therefore, the time to have this discussion is not when you are frustrated or need to vent to someone about something important.
Focus the discussion on how both of you could benefit from having more meaningful conversations where both parties are being heard and how it is important to you that he hears you just like it is crucial for him to be heard.
There is a lot of useful information online about how to be a good listener or therapist in your area that can help you.
Be patient and genuine, and he will come around.
Thanks for reaching out.
This is a great question.
Communication is definitely a 2-way street.
One person cannot participate in a discussion.
It takes a talker and a listener.
Furthermore, communication will breakdown if each party is only focusing on his or her agenda and is not open to what the other person is saying.
since I can't ask you questions about what is going on, I am going to make a guess at one situation that comes up a lot when I work with couples.
One person focuses more on solving the issue, than listening to their partner.
This can be frustrating for the partner who wants to just be "heard.
I understand that you are working really hard to listen to him and he might not be putting as much effort into listening to you.
That can be really frustrating and difficult and I want to acknowledge you for wanting to improve your relationship.
One of the best strategies to gettting heard, is actually to BE A GOOD LISTENER to someone else.
I know you are probably already a good listener and for you to work on listening skills may seem counterintuitive, right? You want to get heard and now you are the one doing the listening.
But this can really create more effective communication if you invest time working on doing some active listening in your relationship because then you get to model those skills for your husband and allow him to see what it feels like to be listened to and then you can even teach him some of those skills.
In other words, you practice specific techniques that you can use and then teach later on.
Here are some skills for you to use consciously and then you can teach:Pay attention and use your body language to convey that you are in the conversation.
No texting or distractions.
Lean in.
Focus.
Listen for content and for emotion.
Clarify what you don't understand.
Try to understand the person's underlying emotions.
Don't rush to judgement or to changing what is going on with the person.
Sit in a place where you are really curious and want to understand what is going on.
Encourage the other person to continue speaking, Nod and vocalize that you hear what they are saying.
Ask questions to get to understand the other person's point of view.
I believe when we can model these kinds of listening skills, and the other person feels heard, they will be more likely to listen to us.
If you don't find that this doesn't spill over in that way, then have a discussion about what you are practicing and that you are learning these skills to be a better listener so you can understand him better.
Then explain how it might be helpful if you both tried it.
If there is push back from him, set up a trial period to just try the skill, perhaps for 2 weeks and see if it helps.
If communication is really breaking down, then it might be time to work with a counselor who can help with these skills.
Best of luck to you!
It's hard when you feel as if you're the only one that's taking the time to listen to your spouse.
But, I would look at this as an opportunity to see if you can become aware of what exactly is happening between you, when you try and talk with your husband.
Sometimes, it can be in the way dialogue is approached.
I would suggest paying attention to the way you begin dialogue with your husband.
See if blame and criticism are present.
When blame and criticism are included, bids for connection, can quickly go off track.
This can sometimes start off with something like: "why don't you.
"you aren't.
"you don't.
Partners can quickly go into defensive mode if they feel they are being attacked and sometimes starting off like this can feel like an attack.
Also, become aware of the time of day or evening when you approach your husband.
Sometimes, this can make a big difference for couples as far as when they can truly be present for one another.
If you find this pattern continues, you might consider seeking professional help through couples therapy.
A trained couples therapist can help you both understand more about what's happening between you.
Does your husband want to listen to you?Find this out by asking him the question!This way you know whether the goal you'd like to reach is even possible.
Some partners prefer that one person is the rule maker or the only one who is entitled to talk about themselves.
If your husband tells you he wants to listen to you, or even that he does listen to you, then you can explain in detail the way you define "listening", which may be very different than his definition.
Basically, no one can directly change someone into being more openminded.
What is possible is to tell him your wishes, your willingness to be patient while he develops the habit of listening to you and point out that a relationship is more fulfilling when both partners feel they are receiving from the other one.
Unfortunately you can't directly change another person's behavior.
However, you can give him feedback on how his not listening impacts you.
The best way to provide feedback is in 3 parts.
The first part is telling him the emotion you are experiencing when he doesn't listen, such as hurt, sad, and unloved.
I would stay away from feelings such as frustrated, angry and irritated and use a more vulnerable emotion.
The second part is what he does specifically to make you feel that way, be specific! Example: when I get home and tell you about my day and you don't look away from the tv.
Be objective as possible when you describe his behavior.
And the last part is the most important, tell him what you want him to do, and again be specific! Example: I would rather you turn off the tv, give me eye contact and reassure me about my day.
Here is an example with all 3 parts together: I feel hurt when you don't say anything to me when I tell you about my fight with my friend, I want you to hug me and tell me you understand how I feel.
Hope that helps!!
Thanks for writing.
There are many different house of things that may be helpful here.
I can give you some general ideas, but if some of these things don't get you to where you would like to go, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples:Remember that you can only guarantee change in yourself.
You can ask him to make changes, but you can't control whether he does or not.
You can control your reactions and what you do about your own thoughts, feelings, and actions in the relationship.
If you're going to talk about something important or you really want him to listen, first ask whether this is a good time.
Try to talk to him without blaming, finger-pointing, or asking him to change (this can be difficult, but it also opens a lot of doors for effective discussions).
Be mindful of your packaging.
By that, I mean that you may have a very important message that you're trying to get across.
If you able to say it in a way that is clear and wrapped in such a way that he can hear what you're actually saying, that is helpful.
If you are talking in ways that are angry, or as I sometimes say, wrapped in spikes, that can be difficult to hear and receive.
Rather than hearing what you're actually trying to get across, he may just hear the fact that you are angry.
If your husband is able to listen to you and/or restate what you are saying and get it right or close to right, let him know what that feels like to you and how important it is.
If you're asking questions, try to avoid "why" question and use "what makes, how, when, where, who" instead.
Questions starting with "why" can not only be difficult to answer, but can also trigger a lot of emotions that some people are not ready to deal with right away.
Also, keep in mind that listening and being able to reflect what you are saying does not imply agreement.
This may be something that would be good to discuss with your husband just because he is hearing what you're saying doesn't mean that he's agreeing with you.
Lastly, but importantly, some people really don't know how to listen effectively.
There are people who just are not taught to do that until much later in their lives.
Sometimes listening to someone can actually be very vulnerability-producing.
It may be helpful to ask your husband if he knows what makes him struggle with being able to listen if you notice that he's really struggling.
Have the two of you ever discussed how you feel? I know given the nature of your question that's probably not likely, but I'm going to suggest it any way.
He needs to understand that how you feel about this issue equates to not being as happy in the relationship as you could be or he thinks you are.
So start there, that may be more of an attention getter than "you never listen to me" yes I do etc.
Direct opener: I'm not as happy in this relationship as I think we both deserve.
Pause, and if you won't let me talk about it then it's only going to get worse.
Then explain you don't feel listened to, you try to be a good listener but you don't feel you are getting the same in return.
If he interrupts put your hand up in the sign of a stop, then say please just let me finish.
You are right to raise this subject with him because a good marriage can't exist in a communication vacuum.
In fairness to him, he needs to understand the seriousness of your concern and have a chance to do better.
If he refuses, tell him you want to seek couples counseling then do it, with him or without him.
One key factor to consider is, are you able to repair after your arguments? It seems from your question that repair is lacking after any disagreement or argument.
When couples are able to repair after an argument, they have an opportunity to learn more about each other's needs moving forward.
I'm also curious if you're having the same type of arguments over and over? If you're stuck in a particular pattern, and can start recognizing what happens between you when this pattern happens, then you can start to name it.
Once you name it, then you can take a break to cool off and come back to each after your nervous system has had a chance to calm down (about 30 minutes).
The key here though is to make sure you have a plan in place - when things are good between you - an agreement between you that when you both start to get escalated, you'll name it or have an agreed upon code word to signal you don't want to continue this cycle, and then agree to cool off and come back together at a later time.
That way, when this is enacted during an argument, nobody feels abandoned during the cool off time.
Rather, both partners know they will return at a time when they can truly hear each other and hear their needs.
At the begin g of marriages, we expect to be living on an eternal honeymoon, but the reality can be different.
This is a process of adaptation, even if you had known your better half for a long time, during the first months and years of marriage you go through a process of settling in your new roles and confront new challenges together that as you resolve become new rules and agreements.
Yes, you can work this issues by practicing assertive communication, being clear with each other about what is the problem, how you feel about it and how would you like to resolve it.
Learn to close arguments with resolutions, and reminding that you care about each other, that's why you choose to be together.
Discuss your roles and expectations, this is normally done over a marriage preparation class, is never too late to sit down a talk about what you want and look for in a husband/wife and clarify your roles and rules.
Find couples therapist who mediates communication and helps both of to you learn assertive communication skills and conflict resolution.
There are plenty of online providers within the mental health field that would me more than happy to speak with you immediately.
Many of them provide treatment on a sliding scale fee.
I would google online mental health treatment providers and that should lead you to a list of providers that can help you.
Depending on your area and location, there may be therapists who provide services on a sliding scale.
Additionally, churches will often times offer counseling for free or for a small fee.
I suggest doing a simple Google search and contact therapists in your area.
It never hurts to ask for a reduced fee and even if he or she is unable to provide the service, they may be able to refer you to someone who can.
Eating disorders usually result from a sense of insecurity about who the person is, whether they are good enough compared with anyone else, and whether the way they person lives is effective.
If you have a style you're already happy with to reflect on these sorts of topics, keep following your own logic with the aim to free yourself, which usually takes place gradually, from these sort of self-doubts.
The other approach would be to find an unperson or an online discussion group where you'd be able to offer and receive the support from other people who live with a similar problem.
Good luck in your studies!
Hello,This question describes a very typical setup of what is called the Binge, Repent, Repeat cycle.
This means that typically after you binge, you experience emotions as you described "shame and disappointment" and then because of these emotions you "repent" and then ultimately end up bingeing again.
There are many coping mechanisms for binge eating and one of the best is actually attempting to NORMALIZE eating.
Meaning you need to attempt to eat normally, eating appropriately portioned meals 3 times a day, with snacks in between.
IF you binge, then it may be helpful to remind yourself that when you attempt to compensate for your bingeing behaviors, and you end up feeling restricted from over exercising or undereating, then this actually leads to a binge again.
Thus, reverting you back to the cycle.
If you binge, it will be helpful to try and get back on a normal schedule of eating instead of trying to compensate for the binge.
Although it may feel counterproductive, getting back on a normal eating schedule will prevent you from entering into the restrictive cycle.
It can also be helpful to remind yourself that the binge has already occurred, it is in the past and the goal is to move forward without focusing on the past.
Focus on what you can do differently next time.
What emotions or situations led up to the binge? What can you to do prevent or change the circumstances that led to the binge, or the way that you handled the situation.
Lastly, if you're struggling with "normalizing" eating, it can be helpful to work with a professional that can provide counseling and coaching to help you learn how to eating normally, mindfully and without feeling the guilt and other harmful emotions sometimes associated with disordered eating.
In dealing with an eating disorder you are far from alone.
It is more common than you might think and tied to so many variables that it is easy for an individual to become overwhelmed in trying to navigate the influences of such variables.
I have been working with individuals dealing with such challenges since 1998 and have found over the years that behavioral analysis is highly effective in helping you begin to isolate, understand and then be able to address many of these variable impacting your behavioral and cognitive choices.
Consider finding someone trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy (DBT).
There is a large body of evidence supporting the use of this approach to alleviating many of the aspects you identified in your post as well of a wide variety of tools that you can choose from and utilize that are able to practiced and assimilated into your daily tool box of coping mechanisms that end up becoming new behaviors and ways of thinking about issues that become automatic, the best possible outcome you can hope for if you want the solution to be sustainable.
The fact that you are aware of the issue and what causes it is a step in the right direction.
You can absolutely break the cycle but it takes a lot of effort.
Much like growing a physical muscle, developing coping mechanisms must be practiced (exercised) in order to gain strength.
Find healthy activities that you like to do that can help you deal with stress.
It appears that you are already going to the gym which is awesome; you want this to be a healthy experience not one done out of guilt.
Is it possible for you to incorporate food items that are healthy for you Remember any changes you make must be practiced and developed over time.
You should seek professional help to assist you with getting to the root cause of your emotional connection to food.
Normally these issues date back to childhood experiences however this is a generalization and I have little information to go on.
Above all else BE KIND TO YOURSELF! Shame is counterproductive.
If you want something to grow you give it love and attention.
I believe that for results that last, the best approach is to understand why someone feels like doing a certain behavior.
Coping mechanisms" are superficial instruction that people usually give up on when feeling extreme pressure from the problem behaviors.
Take the slower road of understanding why you would deprive yourself of enjoying food.
Also, if you consider the binging as a mistake of some kind, reflect on why doing something less than ideal, deserves harsh criticism and not tolerance and acceptance that people mess up occasionally.
I'm glad you know that there are better ways of treating yourself.
This is a valuable awareness of realizing you deserve patience and respect, not humiliation and severe criticism when you are lost as to best ways of self-care.
Hello! I'm so glad you decided to write in today.
This is such a great question and I'm sure many others will relate to exactly what you're describing.
There are a few different ways we can look at in understanding your concern.
First, I think it's important to understand food is just food.
Food is meant to nourish our bodies, provide us with energy and yes, sometimes reserved for special occasions and celebrations.
But in many cultures, we place a LOT of emphasis on food.
We have food at every gathering and every celebration.
What's more people have come to almost EXPECT food to be present at any and every get-together.
And if it's not? Well, then forget about it! I see this time and time again with my clients.
Donuts appear in the office, and it's almost like donuts have never been there before! Must eat one (or two)!However, we need to remind ourselves that this occurrence, or similar ones, will not be the last time we can enjoy this particular food.
It is likely the office donuts have happened before, and they will be there again on another day.
During these moments, I like to have my clients employ a Stop-and-Think method.
Stop-and-Think about your goals before you eat.
Is this donut getting you where you want to be? Also, I have my clients ask themselves how special is this donut? If the donut really is a special donut (from the best bakery in town and you've never been there before) then now might be a time to have the donut.
But if not, it would be wise to pass and wait until that "special" donut.
Another aspect we need to remember about food, is to think about what we're getting from overindulging or overeating.
Are you trying to drown out other emotions? Are you trying to feel better and the food gives you that feeling for a brief moment? What ELSE is going on? This can be determined by utilizing what we describe as a Thought Record.
A Thought Record involves tracking and identifying thoughts and feelings associated with food triggers.
By targeting the emotions, we can then determine where they're coming from, as well as how to decipher them.
A therapist can also help you with understanding your emotions related to food and will be helpful in assisting you with the Thought Record.
The most important thing to remember is that "food addiction" can be a real problem for a lot of people.
If food is taking over your life and you are preoccupied and overwhelmed with knowing where to start, please seek out help.
Binge eating is the most common eating disorder and impacts the lives of thousands.
I would recommend removing yourself from the environment you are in after you have finished eating.
A simple walk around the block, calling up a friend and going to visit, or even going to another room in the house can help.
If you find that you truly have no self control over food, I recommend attending Overeaters Anonymous; a 12 step group for those with compulsive issues related to food.
I hope this helps.
Since you've decided to be with the boy who already showed you his interest, then why not simply tell him you decided to accept his invitation to be together?Probably your first concern about hesitating to accept this boy into your life due to the way you imagine your family may react if you do, is the more complex matter to solve.
Forming a relationship does bring up our values and the way these are different or similar to our own.
At the same time, we already have values which are rooted in those from the family in which we grew up.
Your dilemma of wanting to be with this boy shows there is a clash between your values as an individual, including your choice of partner, and the way your family understands the values which support being part of a couple.
Stay true to what you feel, whether this comes from your family or the way you currently are evolving.
This will guarantee that your new relationship will be built on the values and person you truly are.
Maybe the reason is not having confidence in the love you give to yourself.
Possibly you consider the quality of your self-love as inferior to love someone else gives you.
The best way to push through to your own self-comfort and acceptance is to be aware of this tendency so you can remind yourself to practice appreciating the unique love you give to yourself.
There could be many reasons but often people feel validated when they are in a relationship, the need to be in a relationship can be related to a belief of unlovability which often stems from our childhood.
The relationship sort of soothes this temporarily and the others interest or desire helps counteract the ingrained belief.
There are many questions that may help understand why, how was your relationship with your mother.
How was your childhood etc.
Many people describe having a hole or void they try and fill with material things or people but it only is a temporary fix which usually drives the person to the next relationship, or object in hopes it will be fulfilling but it never is because fulfillment is work we need to do ourselves.
This journey involves finding acceptance and love for ourselves.
Once we have that we don't need to look elsewhere for fulfillment.
There are a lot of ways to look at this.
It sounds as if there is a part of you that is looking for support.
I wonder what it is that you feel when you're not in a relationship?Because of the way you asked the question, I'm getting the impression that you are referring to romantic relationships.
I wonder if you have close friendships that could form a network to help with this when you are not romantically involved with someone.
Even when you are in a relationship with a romantic partner, having friends is still an important element.
I wonder if you could also notice what changes for you inside of yourself (as far as emotions) when you move from not being in a relationship to being in one.
Perhaps you could take a look at what you value about yourself.
In general, it is natural for people to want to be in relationships with others (in this case, relationship has many meanings and degrees).
Most of us enjoy sharing elements of our days, thoughts, feelings, etc.
with someone else who we trust and care about also hoping they care about us in return.
It is not the case of being right or wrong, in my view.
If you are asking, I believe you truly care for your boyfriend.
It seems like he is having difficulties in establishing trust in this relationship.
The ideal would be to come closer to his upsetness and to show him that you are there for him.
I hope all goes well.
Rossana Mag.
The most important thing to ask yourself here is, "how did this action affect my relationship, and is it worth the consequences?" Regardless of your intentions in this action, your boyfriend is uncomfortable with this type of behavior.
From here, we can objectively decide if spending time with your previous partner (because that is likely what your boyfriend sees them as) is worth harming the relationship you currently have.
It is very rare that a person would be comfortable with their partner spending more than a very little amount of time with their exes.
Many times, it just gives the wrong impressions.
It is very possible that your partner may believe that since you spend so much time with them, that they are still a contender for the most intimate relationship you have to offer, and truth be told, they kind of are.
The best intimate relationships, are friendships first and foremost.
It is also a good thing to consider what you are getting out of the relationship with your ex that you are not getting out of the relationship with your current boyfriend.
If you go to this person for emotional support before your boyfriend, then it is very likely you're involved in some "emotional infidelity".
When we turn to others instead of our partner, it is as if we "ran into another person's arms" instead of theirs.
No matter who you are, that hurts.
Depends on your definition of "wrong" on this one.
Was it objectively wrong to spend the weekend with a good friend, who also happens to be an ex? Probably not.
But, it upset your current boyfriend, and he is entitled to his feelings if you are in a relationship with him.
He may be out of line if he assumes that anything happened between you and your ex that would compromise the relationship, however your boyfriend being upset might also mean that he wanted to spend that kind of weekend with you and did not get to do that.
Long story short, it might help your relationship to understand more, and be curious, not judge-y, around what is upsetting for him.
Perhaps having empathy for his experience of the behavior could help him to feel more secure with you having relationships with your ex(es).
While you can't be responsible for your boyfriend's feelings, relationships do come with expectations.
Both people in a relationship bring their own expectations into it.
These expectations are usually unspoken, but result in conflict as you are experiencing here! Your boyfriend expects you not to spend the weekend with this guy.
He may expect you not to spend the weekend with any guy at all.
He may expect you to spend every single weekend with him! You'll have to decide if his expectations are ones you can live with.
Relationships do require some compromise out of concern for our partner, but you get to choose how much you compromise.
We get upset about things that make us feel insecure.
You spending the weekend with an ex makes your boyfriend feel insecure.
That doesn't mean you did anything wrong.
It just means that you have to decide if it's more important for you to maintain your freedom to spend weekends with whomever you wish, or to help your boyfriend feel secure in your relationship.
Good luck! .
Hello.
There are a number of factors playing into this situation.
A former romantic partner coming back onto the scene during a current relationship; you spending alone time (and spending the night) with that former partner; and the uneasy feelings experienced by your current partner (boyfriend).
Now those are the ones you have openly expressed.
There are very likely other issues that prompted this behavior on your part.
You ask if you were wrong.
It is not a question I will be able to answer, because it is not one I am meant to answer.
It is up to you to find that truth.
Now, if you are feeling guilty, was it because of some sexual engagement occurred when you spent the night? If so, you might want to look at why that happened.
Do you feel secure in your current relationship? Is this the relationship you want, or do you want to be with the former boyfriend?Important questions, but ones you need to ask and answer.
Odds are, there is something that triggered this event to occur and it becomes a focal point in discovering any unexplored discomfort or other issues with your current boyfriend.
Seeking relationship counseling can be effective in sorting this out, so be open to that possibility to help you clarify your thoughts and feelings.
Best of luck to you.
Ideally you and your boyfriend will reach a balance point where you and your boyfriend are each happy with the level of involvement you have with your former boyfriend.
Start w a discussion with your current boyfriend as to what specifically he doesn't like about your friendship with your former boyfriend.
It is possible that you can answer his concerns as well he can find out from you more as to what the friendship is all about.
As a therapist, I've never seen a former romantic relationship become only a friendship.
As sincere as you may be in your intention to only keep the friendship with the former relationship partner, if your former boyfriend secretly has romantic feelings for you, then at best, you've got an unclear friendship with this person.
The obvious possibility is to socialize together with your current boyfriend and your former one.
If neither guy would go for this, then this would show there is an undercurrent of competition for your romantic attention.
Basically make your romantic partner's feelings and your own, the major considerations and discuss from this perspective.
This can be a very complicated situation.
The boundaries of relationship include the rules to follow in the relationship.
It is important to follow the rules of your relationship in regards to each person being able to spend time with exes.
If you and your boyfriend agree upon a rule about spending time with exes, then there should be no problem.
Thank you for submitting this question.
I think this type of situation can be common for many couples struggling with how to keep friendships with past relationships while being in a new relationship.
For me, more information is needed here.
but given the information provided, the way I interpret the question is.
I'm assuming your boyfriend didn't know you were going to spend the weekend with your good friend? Working off of this assumption, I would suggest beginning an open and honest dialogue with your boyfriend about what specifically upset him? And to talk about your point of view regarding spending the weekend with him.
I would also suggest talking about how you both envision your relationship when it comes to spending time with others.
If you feel like you can't have this conversation without it going off track, please consider seeing a couples therapist.
They can help you begin these important conversations that can help shape and develop the relationship you and your boyfriend long for.
That is a difficult situation and there is no right or wrong.
You both need to discuss it and come up with a solution that works for the both of you.
You want to spend time with your friend but your boyfriend may feel betrayed by you spending quality time with another man you have been intimate with.
There may be a way for you both to get your needs met.
Maybe you only spend short periods of time with your friend, not a whole weekend.
Or you check in with your boyfriend periodically when you see your friend.
It really depends on the two of you.
If it becomes too difficult, you may need a neutral party to help you establish appropriate boundaries around this issue.
Good luck!
It's completely understandable that you would have male friends and that you would want to spend time with them.
When you cross over from friends to a relationship, it does change things.
Some people are very easy going and wouldn't feel threatened by what you did Others would be upset.
If your boyfriend is upset by you spending time with this male friend, then you need to talk about it.
Each of you needs to express your feelings about the situation and listen to the other with patience and respect.
Then you can make a decision on what is best for you and your relationship.
Maybe he wouldn't be upset if you saw this friend while you were with your boyfriend.
Or maybe your boyfriend would feel better if he got to know this person better and could trust him.
Most likely you can come up with a situation that will make both of you comfortable going forward.
You didn't do anything "wrong" because it doesn't sound like you intended to hurt your boyfriend.
But if you really care about your boyfriend, then you probably care about making him upset.
Instead of looking at this issue as a problem, try to look at it as an opportunity to connect.
If you can both listen to each other and understand each other, your relationship can become even closer.
Two paths are possible.
You're not overreacting and instead are genuinely sensing that something feels unsettled within your girlfriend.
You are overreacting because you have difficulty accepting how safe and loving your relationship is with this person.
The only way to find out is to start conversations with your girlfriend on how you feel.
This will allow new light to open an answer as to the truth.
Once you know what truly is going on between the two of you, your self-trust naturally will grow stronger.
Self-trust will give you an accurate read of what and whom you are able to safely trust.
Remember that all relationships center around 3 simple values: Honesty, Trust, and Respect.
in that order, too.
If you are unable to trust, then you are fundamentally dishonest about something in yourself; Moreover, whatever you do not honestly experience, you do not honestly express out to another; To be honest with oneself is where most people fall down.
and, when you do fall down, pick yourself up.
and get back on the horse.
What's most important is that you recognize that what you've been doing is off base - that what you've been feeling is "overreacting," that you have "insecurities," and you suspect your actions and reactions are connected to your own past and not to the current situation or to your partner.
That's an excellent first step because without recognizing these things about yourself, it's unlikely that you would change.
That said, you sound as if you are really ready to start some therapy to work on your own personal growth.
not because there is something "wrong" with you, but because you're ready to learn more about yourself and make some creative changes in your behavior.
Yes, there are lots of self-help books and courses, but we humans often make the most progress when we have support in real-time from another human being who can sit with us, point out our blind spots, and teach us some skills that are hard to learn on our own.
I can only imagine how hard that must have been to hear.
On one hand, most of us would say we want our partners to always be honest with us, but on the other disclosures like this can lead to feelings of worry and inadequacy if we're not careful.
So let me first of all say that it is very normal for human beings, even very committed and happy partners to have moments where they notice an attraction for someone else.
Quite honestly, the brain can't help it.
It sees something good looking and it pays attention.
And when we pay attention to something good, our brains send out neurochemicals associated with that happy thought.
and we get a rush of what your girlfriend is labeling "a crush.
The difficulty here is deciphering whether she was just attempting to honor her commitment to you by sharing this feeling OR if she is continuing to feed those feelings.
I would encourage you to thank her for being honest if you haven't already, and ask her to further describe the nature of these feelings and what she'd like to do from here.
As weird as it is to say, at the end of the day, what helps the most is typically reassuring yourself that you WILL be okay not matter what! That it is worth it to invest in your relationship and give it your all and if someday, god forbid, this woman chooses to walk away, then she is not the one.
Will it hurt? Of course.
But is it the end? Hell no! There are 7.
5 billion people on the planet and I firmly believe statistically speaking alone, there are at least several hundred thousand that could be AMAZING partners for you.
Hi! It sounds like you are stuck in a difficult place.
You do not want to appear to jealous and yet, it's hard not to be, when you hear about "the crush".
It's only natural to feel a little insecure and you're doing a great job by asking how to cope better.
First of all, long-distance relationships are very hard.
Is this situation likely to continue for a long period of time? The old adage that "absence makes the heart grow fonder" simply isn't true.
It requires a lot of work to keep the fire burning.
Are you, guys, talking to each other a lot? Visiting each other relatively often? Making common plans for those visits or your future together? Do you manage to have fun together, despite the distance.
All of the above are good ways to ensure that your bond stays strong and there will be less space left for interest in other people.
Based on the fact that your girlfriend told you about the crush t I would guess that she thinks it's innocent enough - nothing too threatening.
Try to talk to her about your feelings and brainstorm together ways you can increase your intimacy, which will likely improve your sense of security in the relationship but also help her get over the crush.
Long distance relationships are very difficult to maintain, not just for the lack of communication, but also because of the lack of intimacy that comes along with it.
Even if you have spectacular communication while in a long-distance relationship, it is difficult to maintain intimacy because you are lacking in the physical contact aspect of intimacy.
Here, we are not talking about sex, but about the emotional connection that happens along with physical contact.
It is also hard to have shared experiences when the two of you are in separate places.
These are the challenges that you face, but there are some ways to improve your odds.
The first thing to remember here is that dating is all about finding a person that you want to eventually dedicate your time, resources, and self to.
If either of you finds that the relationship is one that you are not necessarily committed to, it is better to find out and have the opportunity to date others before a commitment is made.
The second thing to remember is that open communication is a good sign in a relationship.
That being said, I do not believe that sharing details about your "crushes" is the best thing for a relationship.
Instead, I would recommend working on improving the relationship as best you can.
It is a wonderful thing when we can feel that we have given our best efforts on something, especially something as important as the act of loving.
Here are a couple things that you can do to improve even a long-distance relationship.
While on the phone or video chat, try asking each other some of these questions so that you can build a deeper knowledge of one another.
Some may seem silly, but they help you know the other person more intimately.
It is also helpful to make sure that you are having regular communication with each other.
Some situations make it very difficult to communicate, but if at all possible, daily communication via phone or video chat would be best.
Even if it is just for 30 minutes a day, really dedicate your time and attention to each other during those calls.
Next, it can be helpful to know each other's love languages so you can show each other how much you really care.
Take the assessment for the 5 Love Languages and talk about the results together.
Attraction to other people is completely normal and involves biological processes.
Intimacy, on the other hand, creates real connection and dedication to each other.
Learn about each other, spend time together, and you will create intimacy.
Thanks for writing in.
Several things come to mind:I don't know how you are communicating, but there is a great deal of difference between communicating through videoconferencing compared to text message when discussing subjects like this.
Being able to hear and/or see each other will help you to be able to gauge a lot of the emotions connected to what is going on.
Are you in a place where you can ask your girlfriend questions about this crush and actually listen to her answers? If you can listen non-defensively and ask questions about what is actually going on (kind of like an investigative reporter might), you are likely to hear about her experience, thoughts, feelings, etc.
, so you can actually see what the crush is like for her and how you want to react to that.
Then you could see if she is willing to listen to your questions and answer them for you.
Another tip: Find out when is a good time to have this conversation.
If you are talking to your girlfriend after she just worked a 10 hour shift and she is frustrated about that, it is likely that the emotion will transfer to the conversation that you are having even though it doesn't have anything to do with that.
Find a way to keep yourself grounded and centered during the conversation.
Notice your feet on the floor or your hips in the chair.
Mindfully play with an object or something like a paperclip or a pen.
Doing this mindfully (by being aware of your senses) will help you to not feel so overwhelmed during the conversation.
After you have more details, communicate about what it is that you want or wish for.
It is often easier to hear and discuss as opposed to talking about something that you need.
Remember that while anger is a very real emotion, there is always something else under it.
Be aware of what else could be there: hurt, disappointment, betrayal, fear, etc.
Often, communication is the key within relationships.
When faced with our significant other telling us about a crush, it can create or highlight feelings or thoughts that can promote feelings of insecurity.
Talk to your partner about their crush and use the conversation to strengthen your bond.
No one can tell you how to deal with your own relationship, even a therapist.
But, you should absolutely give your girlfriend the respect of believing both of those statements she gives you: development of feelings and it being a "crush.
If that makes you feel a certain way (mistrustful? no difference in feelings) then that is what is most important to understand.
When you understand exactly how YOU feel about hearing this news, then we can know how you should deal with this.
You have every right to be in the relationship or to leave the relationship.
But if trust is broken, first and foremost it needs repairing.
What that repair looks like varies (but can often involve couples therapy, which may be complicated because of the long-distance nature of the relationship.
) Otherwise, staying in a relationship that has become mistrustful for you, and not prioritizing the repair, is a recipe for disaster.
Long distance relationships have the addition strain of being far away.
It sounds like you and your girlfriend overcame the initial challenges considering that you've been together for over a year and she was honest in telling you about her crush.
These are some clear strengths in your relationship.
Now moving forward, continuing to have honest conversations about your relationship will help ensure you two are on the same page.
Explore with her how this crush came about and what her feelings are about this relationship.
Be prepared for the answers and express your feelings as well.
You've invested over a year in this relationship, it may be worth figuring out how to mend it.
Ignoring this issue will potentially lead to other issues.
Did your girlfriend tell you her reason to tell you about the new person?Your feelings of insecurity is natural because you don't know where the crush fits into her life.
Since any long-lasting relationship in which both people thrive, means each partner freely speaks their mind and will be listened and responded, then your current situation is a good one to start these foundations of talking with one another.
Tell your girlfriend whatever is on your mind regarding her crush.
As your trusted partner, theoretically she would like to know all about how you feel.
Keep the expectation that talking about anything at all, is the best sign of closeness.
Once you learn more about this crush you can decide what, if anything to do differently in your relationship.
Those words must have been extremely difficult to hear or read.
It sounds like you are both having difficulty with the distance, and I can only imagine that you have both been coping with this distance as well as you can.
There are a few scenarios that I think would have pretty radically different paths for your own mental health, and I would like to explore them separately.
The first scenario is that she has this crush, but still chooses you and wishes to stay with you.
Keeping the value of her choice in mind, and the bravery she has shown in admitting this crush, handling her gently in that vulnerable place will pay off.
You may find it worthwhile to explain your feelings about it, to share how it is hurting you to know of this, and what she means to you.
Explaining those feelings will help you to not act out in your with emotions to cover up by becoming angry or withdrawing.
Acting in this way will help assure her of her choice in you, and sharing these emotions and feeling supported by her may help you cope with this.
The other scenario is that she has a crush on this man and she is wanting to leave the relationship with you to have one with this other person.
As before, it would be useful for you to share your feelings with someone.
It can be difficult to process through these emotions, as they are intense and often overwhelming.
In this scenario, it may be too difficult to share these feelings with your girlfriend, but it is still important that you acknowledge this loss and allow the associated emotions to have its place.
Grieving the end of this relationship could be a great source of personal growth.
I hope this has been of some help.
If I understand you correctly, this "maybe-boyfriend" has done a partial break up, and wants to maintain a partial relationship.
Is that ok with you? And, if it is, what does it cost you? He says he's "done" but still wants the connection.
That seems to leave him free to explore other options, but it doesn't allow you to do the same.
Break ups are painful, and I know you'd like to avoid that.
I get it that you feel attached to him - you have been in a relationship with him for 4 years, so that makes sense.
However, loving him appears to be costing you a lot, without much in return.
If you wait for him to define what he wants, you could be on hold for a long time.
Please don't wait another year to advocate for yourself.
See a therapist who can help you figure out what you need out of relationships and why you have allowed yourself to be on "pause".
It is possible that once you get clear, you will be able to have a true relationship with him.
If not, please don't settle for this.
Take good care of yourself.
That does sound very confusing.
and hurtful.
You do not have to tolerate someone treating you in a way that hurts you.
It may be helpful to decide where the boundaries are for you and to stay true to them in your interactions with him.
You teach other people how they are allowed to treat you.
Have you brought up the topic as to the way you're feeling?The best way for someone to understand us or to understand someone, is to directly talk about the specific problem.
To start the discussion w your partner, understand your own reasons for continuing the relationship.
Given his stated disinterest in the relationship, your mood is probably affected by this.
Once you are clear on how the range of your feelings, especially any fears on being alone, suggesting you may be staying w this guy simply to avoid such fears, then you'll be ready w your self-knowledge, to start a conversation w your partner about your relationship.
This can be difficult and confusing.
If you think your boyfriend would be open to having a discussion, try asking him for a time when he is willing to have an important discussion.
When that time matches with a time that is good for you, try discussing the type of relationship that you each want to have and what you can start and stop doing to get there.
He may want to be really good friends.
He may also be trying to figure out what he is feeling.
If you end up talking over one another, try letting one person be the one who is talking about their feelings for about five minutes and during that time, try having the other person asked questions to gain more understanding of their experience.
Then you can switch.
Also consider asking questions that cannot be answered with yes or no, but lead to more explanations.
Questions that start with the words how, what, when, who are usually better than questions starting with "why" because they can be emotional triggers for some people.
If this is difficult to do between the two of you, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples.
What most people don't know is that sexual preferences can be fluid, meaning our sexual orientation is not as fixed as most people believe.
Women in particular tend to be more fluid in their desire to express and experience sex.
It is not uncommon for heterosexual women in their mid-life to explore new sexual appetites.
That said, men tend to be more rigid in their orientations particularly if they are hetero while gay men tend to be more fluid.
So if your distress is over your new interests I would tell you, you are not alone and not abnormal.
Since you have started exploring, enjoy and consider seeing a therapist to help you navigate your feelings around this new sexual life! Warm wishes.
Sexuality is normally formed during adolescence.
It would be extremely rare for someone to develop feelings of same-sex attraction later in life.
I would explore whether the attraction you are experiencing is sexually-based or intimacy-based.
Perhaps you are craving a close, emotionally intimate relationship with the same-sex, but have somehow sexualized that desire.
People often short-cut emotional intimacy for sexual intimacy.
This would be something to explore with a counselor.
Few people are actually 100% straight or 100% gay.
Sexual preference exists on a continuum.
Over the course of many years a person's sexual preference may shift.
Sexuality is fluid.
It is possible to find yourself attracted sexually or affectionally to different types of people at different times in your life.
During these encounters did you feel safe? accepted? Where you able to experience something new in your life.
It is natural to feel attraction to all people.
As young children we love everyone.
It was as we got older that the social constructs had us make a "choice".
It could have been that you were always attracted to the same sex, but now are allowing yourself to feel and explore.
But also know that life is interesting as we grow and mature we find that we like things we never liked before, things we said we would never do now seem appealing.
What is the story you are telling yourself about having these interests? Try to not overthink your attractions.
See where they take you.
You are on a journey to discover yourself.
There are many possible answers to your question.
The best one will be the one you decide after reflecting on your own reasoning as to your sexual attraction change.
Sometimes people inhibit their sexuality bc of fear others will disapprove.
Currently since in most circles being gay is acceptable, the conditions are much easier now to come out.
Maybe this describes you.
How happy are you in your marriage?Sometimes people find it easier to discover a sudden change in their sexuality than to face painful emotions in an existing marriage.
These are only two theoretical possibilities and may not even reflect your own.
What matters is your self-discovery and that you trust your findings as the answer to your question.
I would ask you, "do you feel like you need to come up with a label?" Is there something about identifying as one or the other that would be helpful for you? From what current science has told us about sexual orientation, it's a spectrum.
There are people on the spectrum who are clearly gay, or clearly heterosexual, and then there is everyone in between, which includes being "bisexual" (which I guess in the spectrum would be smack in the middle?)It may be too early for you to identify as any one thing on that spectrum (as you say, "but I don't really know"), or maybe as you move through life you just won't identify as any one thing, and that's totally okay.
The most important thing, in my professional opinion, is to accept yourself, fully, for whatever it is that you are.
The second most important thing, in my professional opinion too, is to be honest with yourself and your partners about however you do identify your sexual orientation.
Sexual orientation is not always something that is clearly definable.
Some people look at it on a continuum where being attracted to only boys is at one end, only girls is at the other, and bisexual is in the middle.
Anywhere in between those points can be any amount of attraction to boys or girls.
If you don't know whether you are gay or bisexual, that is okay.
A lot of people don't know for quite some time.
In addition to that, after people do know who they are attracted to, a lot of times they do not use the terms "gay" or "bisexual" for quite a while.
It's okay not to know.
Think about what sorts of expectations you have for your ideal relationship.
Some examples may include trust, respect, availability for conversation or connection, etc.
Whatever it is that you find important in a relationship is likely what matters most.
If you are struggling with learning what it is that you would like in a relationship or any other feelings connected with what you are thinking and feeling, I would suggest connecting with a local therapist so you have a place to talk about what you are experiencing.
I am so sorry this happened.
Sharing a part of your private life without your permission can be so painful.
I might suggest (depending on your relationship) reaching out to your sister and discussing this (or setting boundary that you don't want to discuss your private life).
I might also speak with your wife and share how hurt you are and what you need to happen moving forward to begin to heal.
Echoing others here, I'm sorry, she shouldn't have.
Hopefully, you will have a conversation (or, in reality, several conversations) about relationship expectations of privacy.
Are there things your wife would prefer you not share with her family? Without exploring what is or isn't okay through healthy dialog, it's entirely possible she felt her sister was 'in the circle' of people she could share this with.
All that said, though .
now that you've been outed, you have an opportunity to be more authentically you: what will you do with it?
If you enjoy cross-dressing and are comfortable with how you feelaand aware of your own thoughts and feelings about it in private as compared to in public, I see no problem with that.
If you would like to become more comfortable with it or express more feelings about it, I recommend that you see a local mental health professional, not because there is anything wrong with what you are doing, but so you can learn more about yourself in the process.
You may find that doing this in private and having a partner who accepts that is your view of how you would like things to be.
You may discover that you would like to do this in public.
I appreciate your honesty.
Wonderful! I am so excited for you.
What a huge decision.
I am writing from Toronto Canada so it is hard for me to direct you specifically.
I would start with two things : Find a doctor that is comfortable perscribing hormones and find a Counsellor or Therapist that is transgender specialized.
They will know how transitioning works in your health care system and other supports as well.
Google is a wonderful way to find these resources.
I wish you well.
Thanks for writing!
I agree with Amy.
We get a lot of pressure from others and even ourselves to define who we are and what we want at a pretty early age.
The truth is, our sexuality can change and grow in directions we never imagined.
I may be wrong, but I am getting the impression that you may not want to be gay.
That this is something you didn't like others suggesting and now you are uncomfortable with the idea that it may be true.
This would certainly be understandable.
Your sexuality is YOURS and yours alone.
It can be quite frustrating and hurful when others try to define who you are.
And it can be equally frustrating when you are trying to figure it out for yourself.
The truth is that there are many different possibilities when it comes to sexual orientation.
It may help to think about what qualities you find attractive.
What kind of person can you see yourself being attracted to? Someone smart? Funny? Loves dogs? If you look for these qualities in a person they may lead you to being attracted to someone of the same sex, but maybe not.
At least you would be choosing someone based on values and qualities that you love and admire.
Another idea is to chat with a counselor, if you are interested.
Preferrably one who has done some training in affirmative therapy.
Use this time to explore who you are.
imagine what your life would be like if you were gay and not, ask yourself what is different? What scenario do you find yourself gravitating to? What is important is that you are happy.
My message to you is that you do not need to define yourself with your sexual preference or feel the need to label yourself, especially if you are confused and exploring what your sexual preference is.
It doesn't sound like you are finding yourself attracted to anyone.
It could mean that you just haven't connected with anyone you find attractive, or that you are asexual - essentially not oriented toward anyone.
I would suggest doing some reading on asexuality and see if it connects to how you feel!
There are variations of asexuality.
Some people who are asexual have an interest in sex and others don't.
Also, once you read more on this topic, you may find that you don't connect with asexuality either, and that is okay.
Our society usually thinks of sexual orientations as only being straight, gay, lesbian, or bisexual, but the truth is there are many variations of sexual orientations.
Keep exploring.
There is a good chance that there is a community of people who feel like you do.
Finally, labels are important for a lot of things, but labeling ourselves can sometimes lead to some painful feelings.
Try not to feel pressured to label yourself too quickly.
This is your journey.
Your experience.
Take all the time you need.
You may never feel the need to label how you feel, and that is okay, too.
Hope this helps.
No, it does not necessarily.
Your sexual preference is based on who you ARE attracted to, not what does not turn you on.
If you find you have no sex drive at all, this is called asexual.
But you did not mention what you do find arrousing either.
Hope this helps.
Hi.
It can be difficult to handle such a transition on your own.
I work with clients to understand their needs and wants.
This can involve how to communicate effectively with friends, family, and other loved ones; or, learning how to have self-acceptance.
I strongly recommend speaking with a licensed clinician one on one to help facilitate the change you are looking for.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
I am so glad that you reached out for help.
I know that the dysphoria can feel nearly impossible to handle, especially since you have limited support from people who accept who you are.
You may already know some of these resources, but I am going to share a few.
The website www.
letsqueerthingsup.
com is a blog from a very good writer that I know.
His name is Sam Dylan Finch, and he is transgender.
He writes about mental health, transgender issues, and many other topics.
I know he has frequently written about gender dysphoria and ways to manage it.
You may want to check out his site and do a search on there.
If you search for gender dysphoria on their site, many articles pop up.
It may be a good resource for you, especially if you ever feel lonely and start to forget that there are others out there who are like you and have your back.
I am not sure where you live, but there are counselors who specialize in affirmative therapy, which is what is recommended for folks who are part of the LGBTQ community.
So, if you decide to see a counselor about the dysphoria, try to find one that specifically says they have been trained in the affirmative approach.
In addition, feel free to ask questions of the counselor before agreeing to see them for counseling.
An ethical counselor would have no problem answering them before having you come in.
If there are some LGBTQ resource centers in your area, try to reach out to them and see if there are support groups.
Gaining more support from others would be helpful.
Sometimes LGBTQ-friendly counselors leave their contact information for people in resource centers.
Finally, I know you have not mentioned being depressed or suicidal, but I also know that it is very common for people to consider suicide when they are struggling with dysphoria, dealing with transphobia, etc.
If this ever happens to you, please call 911 or the Trans Lifeline.
This is a difficult situation to be in, as it sounds like you are feeling very isolated from both your family and your friends.
I don't know your age or gender so please excuse any incorrect assumptions about you being under 18 and use what is useful from the ideas if you are older.
One idea is to research online to find a therapist or a local clinic that has a therapist who is a "Gender Therapist" or a "Gender Specialist.
Most therapists who are transgender affirmative also have other specialties and do general therapy.
Though I don't think lying to your parents is a good idea, if you feel you truly can't talk to them about your gender, then perhaps you can find a therapist with a specialization in gender identity who can help you cope with your gender dysphoria.
You can let your parents know that you would like to see that particular therapist for other reasons, such as anxiety/worry, and that you researched them and liked their website.
Work to find a therapist who takes your parents insurance if you can.
You can also talk to the therapist on the phone first, before you talk to your parents about scheduling the first therapy visit.
Therapists can help you learn some ways to manage feelings of worry, shame, and fear related to gender dysphoria.
Depending on your family situation, many therapists will work to help you learn skills to safely communicate with your parents about what is troubling you.
Your parents may actually surprise you and be more accepting than you think.
Usually when parents learn that you are suffering, they want to be open to learning how they can help you, even if awkwardly at first.
Reframing is a tool that helps you think about your situation from other perspectives.
It's kind of how you can look at the same picture with a different picture frame and it makes the same picture look a little different.
Keep in mind your situation is probably temporary and think about in the context of your whole long life.
If you are living at home, you will eventually be more independent and be able to make more of your decisions about your gender expression.
Keep the idea in mind the concept that is popular in mindfulness classes I teach, that "This too shall pass" or "This is only for now" when you start to feel hopeless.
If you start to over focus on your gender or body issues, try to distract yourself with things that make you feel happy (your pet, music, art, sports etc) or stay busy.
If you can, find any GSA or LGBTIQQ youth group that you can attend confidentially, further away from home, to get some support.
Work to find an ally, one person, that you can talk to about what you are feeling.
Making new friends online through social media can sometimes be a start in breaking down the isolation you feel.
Another idea, if you are under 24 years old, there is a phone line (866-488-7386) to call in case you are ever feeling you are in crisis.
Are there ways you can focus on parts of your body you love? Can you focus on that when you look in the mirror? Are you a writer? Can you write stories or poetry about the life you imagine for yourself in the future? Can you do small things that help you get more in touch with your gender day to day like making small choices about your clothing, like wearing clothes that are more unisex, that only you know are gender related but others won't notice? You cannot force others to accept you but you can work on your self-acceptance and self-compassion.
That work is something that is best done in the company of others like you as well as with at least another person who gets you and whom you can trust.
Good luck to you!
What you are experiencing is totally normal and these emotions mean you are human! Humans are social creatures who were created to be in connection with others, but sometimes our life experiences or genetics can make that more difficult for some of us.
It is possible that these reactions are based on negative reactions you have had with others in the past, maybe your family, or other traumatic interactions with others.
It is also possible that they are caused by an underlying condition such as anxiety or depression, which may cause you to be more uncomfortable around others or annoyed by others.
Some people are also more bothered by crowded spaces, loud interactions, and the actions of others.
Of course you prefer animals, they provide unconditional love and support, do not judge you, and do not require you to have conversations with them.
The fact that you have conversations in your head at night tells me that although you say you do not like people, you are craving some social connection.
What is probably the case is that you were never really taught how to interact and have those conversations.
The good news is that there is nothing wrong with you, you just need a little help learning how to have these conversations and taking some healthy risks to initiate conversations and that is something that I help many of my clients with in therapy.
So amazing that you are aware of your social anxiety and distress with others you are in relationships with.
You have taken the first step toward a journey of healing! Secondly, make an appointment with a therapist who specializes in neurofeedback and biofeedback treatment.
Then it will be focused treatment which will speed your healing.
You might be surprised how normal you are.
Anxiety is incredibly common and while your particular type of existential anxiety might be unique to you - it is very difficult for most people to really comprehend what happens after we die - regardless of the religious or philosophical belief systems we hold.
It is the ultimate unknown and some philosophers and psychologists believe that at the root of our day-to-day anxieties is the fear of death or fear of the unknown.
Just as it can be really hard to comprehend the ending of life it can also be hard to comprehend an eternal existence.
What these both have in common is that we are imaging a future that is ultimately unknowable and this unknown can provoke a lot of anxiety.
Mindfulness based practices like meditation - maybe there is something like this in your religious tradition - can be very helpful in making peace with the unknown in the present moment.
The more we can learn to live in the moment - the less we get hung up on anticipating outcomes for our lives that may never come true.
Mindfulness practices can help you ground, be where you are , relax and regulate your nervous system so that you are able sleep and recuperate, and train your attention to focus on living the life you want to live now - rather than worrying about what happens after you die.
Having said all that - it can be profoundly helpful to speak with someone about your anxiety - especially when you feel haunted by it, worry that you are crazy and can't get to sleep.
There are lots of good therapists out there who can help you with your anxiety.
You are a unique individual exhibiting some of the traits of a specific type of temperament.
Through temperament counseling you can come to know, accept, and manage your God-given temperament to become all that God intended.
There is nothing wrong with you -- God loves you as you are and wants to help you balance your temperament needs.
The thing I picked up immediately in what you're asking is how you don't like other people because "they make me nervous and scared.
If someone said that to me in a therapy session, I'd want to understand this much more with them, and what this "nervous and scared" experience is all about: perhaps starting with the question, "what's the earliest memory you have of feeling uncomfortable around people.
The idea would be to try to understand all of what it means for you to be around people, and the history of the experience, without labeling it wrong or passing judgment on it.
From there what might come is that certain people, and their character traits, might be harder to be around for you because of experiences that you've had with similar situations in your life.
Or, it could certainly be something completely different.
It would be most important to understand it much more deeply considering the amount of distress it causes you, and in doing so we could begin to see it as "normal for me.
I think you have a lot of insight into what are going on - being able to pinpoint the issue you are facing and describe the responses it evokes.
It sounds like you may be dealing with social anxiety and it may be beneficial to talk to a professional counselor about this.
A therapist can help you develop tools (or coping strategies) for dealing with these situations.
From what you are shared, you might benefit from animal assisted therapy.
Equine therapy is a great approach, or even just working with a therapist who uses animal assisted therapy integrated with a traditional approach to counseling.
It's totally normal to feel overwhelmed and uncomfortable in large crowds, or large family gatherings.
You may worry about not fitting in, or having anything to say.
It is important to have a friend or two.
Try to find someone with similar interests.
Maybe you can do things that don't involve a lot of face to face contact, like going to see a movie, play or sporting event.
Many people are perfectly happy doing things in small groups.
If you have ongoing conversations in your head, it is usually due to worry about being judged, and wanting to do or say the exact right thing, as mentioned above.
Finding someone to talk to, either a supportive friend or therapist, would allow you to get some of those thoughts our of your head, and realize that you are more accepted than you think.
Good luck!
Since you're aware of your sensitivity to being among large groups of people, then continue to satisfy this and stay away from crowds as much as reasonably possible.
It is also fine to prefer the companionship of animals, as long as it is not to the exclusion of relationships with people.
Recognizing this feature about yourself is another example of self-understanding.
The only point to consider is the reason you avoid talking with other people.
If its because of bad or stressful encounters, betrayals or some type of violation, then having this relationship pattern remain in your mind, may introduce new problems such as loneliness from lack of close friends.
What you should do is honestly understand whether you avoid people from fear of being hurt or exploited in some way or because you genuinely prefer solitude.
If you have the right combination of people/solitude/animals, then great!If not, then consider the confidential office of a therapist for new understanding of yourself and your social interests.
You need to find an outlet.
Someone to talk to.
Your dad or someone who loves your mother as well is someone ideal.
But anyone could help.
Just look to someone for help.
If you can't find anyone who you think will listen, talk to your mom.
It can help greatly just to get the words out.
Tell her how you feel about her passing, but then also about everything else.
Talk to her about your day.
Tell her about happy things.
I don't know if you're a religious person, or where you believe she is now, but no matter what you can talk to her.
Though I don't know for sure, it sounds like anxiety to me.
I think it would be helpful if you work with a therapist who specializes in anxiety disorders.
Your, sitting in your car for 30 minutes, story sounds so sad and frustrating.
Yes, you're describing classic symptoms of anxiety.
Anxiety itself is the indirect result of repeatedly being in positions of feeling helpless or frightened.
Are you able to recall from your growing up years of feeling insecure?You may not have felt loved and nurtured as much as you needed.
Some people develop anxiety from missing enough love.
They feel lacking in ability to take care of themselves, similar to the lack of being sufficiently taken care of when younger.
Try understanding if you felt neglected emotionally.
If "yes", then start the slow process of emotionally rewarding and acknowledging yourself.
Progress will be slow.
Eventually you'll stabilize the way you feel toward yourself.
This will gradually result in decreased anxiety.
First, be aware that each end every one of us has anxiety at some point.
That certainly seems to fit what you're describing here, but that doesn't mean you have an anxiety disorder, necessarily.
That's where there is a difference.
Anyone who has a hard time with public speaking or feels uncomfortable in large crowds, for example, is experiencing anxiety.
It sounds like it would be helpful to look at the differences between the days when you are more comfortable on the days that you are not.
If you notice your anxiety is keeping you from doing things that you need or want to do, it may be helpful to talk with and mental health professional.
I wonder also whether your appetite and sleeping patterns are the same or similar to how they were before you experienced this anxiety, when your anxiety started, and whether you feel more comfortable when someone you trust is there with you.
If you have an idea of times or situations in which you feel anxious, consider carrying a small smooth rock or another object that makes you feel calm and centered.
Perhaps you can keep it in your pocket and remember specific comfortable times while you have it in your hand.
Why not accept and tolerate that you naturally are a shy person who doesn't like large groups?This is not necessarily something to get over if it is part of who you are.
People have the capacity to judge others regardless of whether the group is large or small.
If you aren't afraid of being judged in small groups then study the factors which allow you to feel safe in small groups.
Possibly you can generalize your findings to large group venues.
If you try the and aren't successful, then likely you simply aren't naturally someone who cares for large group settings.
Not everything a person doesn't like is a symptom of something is wrong w the person!
Would you worry less if you and your partner had a plan as to when you will be together as a couple?Long distance relationships are not for everybody.
Some people need the daily or frequent interaction to feel secure.
The question is not so much how to deal with anxiety that your partner is cheating on you than whether your own emotional and relationship requirements are satisfied with a long distance relationship.
Anyway, cheating has nothing to do with distance since married people cheat while living together for years under the same roof!
Maybe you are afraid to let go of your problems for a few hours.
Although you didn't write this, usually what keeps people awake or prevents them from falling asleep are worries about certain situations in their lives.
If this describes you then.
maybe talk with yourself to convince you that you are entitled to a good night's sleep.
Really we all are and feeling rested from the day and life's tensions will better you to handle whatever the particular matters are.
Also, maybe you will be more enthusiastic to go to bed if you have a comfy mattress and nice pillows! Make your bed an inviting place because this will tempt you to enjoy relaxing enough to go to sleep!
One approach is to be more accepting of yourself as someone who has fears.
It is much easier to manage a problem when you're not fighting yourself for having a problem.
Once you are willing to accept this quality within yourself you may start to feel a little more relaxed about handling the fears when they arise.
One answer is to examine the facts about the fears.
Ask yourself fact based questions as to how you would handle the worse case scenario of your fears.
Feeling prepared, whether or not the circumstance is highly unlikely to happen, may increase your peace of mind with living the great fears within your mind.
The short answer I could give is that we don't know why it's happening.
The longer answer could come from deeper exploration as to your fears, or anxieties, that you experience maybe just thinking of going outside.
But any sort of exploration about this almost HAS to begin with an agreement within you (and all of your feelings), that's it's not something to be ashamed of.
If we are ashamed of any of our behaviors, then we lose the ability to sit with them and see where they are coming from.
This could be something that can be worked through in therapy, and specifically with a therapist who specializes in anxiety and more specifically, agoraphobia.
There's no such possibility that you're upset for "no reason"!The reason is not obvious, not that you are feeling upset in response to nothing at all.
What can help you feel better is to be kind and gentle with yourself because this sort of approach will more likely relax your mood and mindset enough for the tension and anxiety you feel, to dissipate somewhat.
Try to understand whether certain situations or interactions remind you or feel similar to ones which distressed you before.
This may be the reason for your anxiety.
It is good news that you know the difference between your usual sense of yourself and that you've been away from this feeling.
Give yourself a little credit for understanding yourself.
Giving credit adds confidence and confidence will help you find the reasons and new ways to handle your anxiety.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
Overcoming fears is something that everyone struggles with at one time or another.
Sometimes we come across something that scares us, we push through it and suddenly we aren't afraid anymore.
But sometimes it can seem like our fears just take over and we cannot overcome them.
There are some options: You can go to a counselor and receive some type of treatment.
What kind of treatment would depend on the type of fears you are experiencing.
For example, if you have a general phobia about something, they may use various techniques to help you manage it.
There are different websites and even some self-help books that you can use to try to overcome your fears.
When it comes to overcoming certain fears or phobias, exposure therapy well-studied and proven to work.
A therapist would help you with this, but some websites give instructions for how to do it yourself.
I am not sure how well it works when you try it by yourself, but here is a link to a website that does offer some tools.
You are right.
It is not normal to hear voices that aren't your own but the fact is some people do.
In my experience, medication seem to help.
It is also important to understand when you hear voices the most - meaning it is important to understand what the triggers are.
It is also important to understand when the voices are the least - meaning what helps you deal with the voices better.
My clients have reported that their triggers are being in social gathering or around strangers or for some even the TV.
Trying to identify your triggers is helpful for some people.
Clients have also reported that listening to music, watching TV, being with friend or family helps them deal with their voices.
Every individual is different and you need to figure out what works for you and what triggers your voices.
My suggestion is to see a therapist health care provider and then go from there.
I hope this helps.
Watching children go through challenges in their lives is difficult.
On a very basic level, There exists a primal need to protect them from harm.
The hard part for parents is letting them feel those challenges and working through them as they get older.
At some point, there is a moment that occurs when the role as a parent shifts.
Children no longer need the basics (food, shelter.
water, safety) as much as when they were toddlers, but rather, their needs shift to wanting more support, encouragement, advice, and room to make mistakes.
This is where the ability to communicate with them, letting them direct the sails to gather the wind needed to move, is so important.
Keep the lines of communication open and be available to give feedback when they ask for it.
Sometimes stress helps us become motivated and thrive to do better however, if your daughter is stressing to the point that she is crying and freaking out then that would be concerning.
Helping your daughter with relaxation techniques like deep breathing or guided imagery would be a good start.
Also, reminding your daughter that you see her doing so well in school and that most importantly you are there for her.
I would also make an appointment to see a mental health therapist they can have more ideas on ways to de-stress.
Aye, you're correct, that isn't normal, and maybe you should get her to a doctor!Before you do that, and if she were my daughter, I would provide her the necessary physical support that can be given readily at home; that is: proper natural diet, rest, and a good sense of detoxification before she readies herself to approach it.
Basic listening is warranted here and would be of great use.
As parents, it's hard not to have "freak out" moments when our children are being bullied, stressed, or exhibit other symptoms of teenage angst.
We walk a delicate balance of letting go and giving autonomy to our teens get older.
Adolescents are learning how to be functional adults and it's important to allow them to try (and sometimes fail) in managing their emotions.
Grades are a pretty good indicator of how a student is doing, overall.
If your daughter has a 4.
0 and there's no pattern of "crying and freaking out" I'd offer gentle support and encourage her to find ways to relax when she's stressed.
If her grades start to decline and her crying spells become more frequent, a call to a counselor who specializes in teens might be in order.
Good luck!
I am sorry to hear about your daughter.
Many of the youth I see in my practice are going through similar behaviors and concerns.
If she feels like she can talk to you about this I think that is a great place to begin.
There are many life stressors that youth have to manage and seeing others on social media seems to exacerbate these feelings and can feel like even more pressure to strive for perfection.
You may be able to offer her support by listening to and validating her concerns, reviewing all that she has accomplished and praising her for doing her best and not push that she needs to be "the best.
If she feels she would like to speak to someone it may be good to find a therapist where she can vent her feelings and find a way to increase her coping skills.
She may benefit from additional support outside the home where she can cry, learn to manage her worries and gain skills to triage the expectations of each day.
She may benefit from skills that would help her to learn that she is enough already!
I hear that you are concerned about your daughter's reaction and her emotional well being.
Her behaviors are worry some as you feel she seems to be approaching her breaking point.
I would suggest speaking to your daughter about the situation at school and her feelings.
Listening and acknowledging your daughter's feelings without judgement or giving solutions is a very effective communication skill.
Ask your daughter how she feels about speaking to a therapist or her doctor.
Someone that she knows and feels comfortable talking to about her feelings and learning healthy coping skills to address stressful situations.
It may be helpful to register for a class you can take together.
I would recommend mindful meditation or yoga, just the two of you.
Something you find time for in a weekly basis.
Yoga is amazing in learning mindfulness and reducing stress.
I use yoga and mindful techniques when working with children and recommend it to parents to engage with their children.
Hope this helps.
All you can do control is work on yourself.
When you have enough sense of self, you will know how to deal with your family.
Therapy is an investment in yourself, which affects your family.
Your situation is a difficult one, but I would encourage you to start considering how to set boundaries for yourself and your family members.
Often, times we believe we have to allow a certain behavior because a person is family.
This is not true.
It sounds like you could use some help understanding finding your voice and asserting yourself with your family members.
When their verbal abuse starts, tell them you are exiting the conversation because the way they're talking to you is unacceptable.
Explain you are willing to hear their point of view only not when it is expressed as abuse.
They may not agree with your opinion and also may not want to change.
Even if they do not change, you are entitled to be treated as a human being who is worthy of respect.
Explain your reason to exit the conversation and ask them to write down their requests for you to consider.
It sounds like your children are walking on eggshells, and behaving in a manner that suggests that (at minimum) they may be receiving an undue amount of anger from someone in their lives.
In addition to addressing this delicately with your children's father, it would be wise to speak with your children's teachers and pediatrician as well.
Please closely monitor the situation, and express to your children that they can always come to you with any information, and they will never be in trouble for confiding in you.
The kids are actually her Property, and he does have a claim to them as he wishes;The house is yours, I presume.
So require that if he wishes to see his Property, it be done off of your Property;And, that as long as it remains your Property, you have jurisdiction over all those, therein;Require compensation for visits, and send him a bill;When he doesn't pay, send to the local sheriff, go to small claims court, and win a judgment against him for non-payment;I wonder how that might work out act as man.
At times when a child is not displaying milestone behavior at the same rate that is average for their peers, this should raise concern, so you are correct in reaching out for advice.
Speaking with your child's pediatrician, as well as school staff may be the first places to start.
You can request that she receive an assessment and evaluation, with a subsequent treatment plan to meet any needs she may have.
Kids develop in different ways and different speeds.
It can sometimes feel like your kid has a delay because of these different ways of development.
If you have concerns about your child development then addressing it with the school is the best solution.
They will be able to provide a full assessment if needed with an academic diagnosis as well as academic support.
It sounds like it might be worth asking the school for an evaluation to determine whether your daughter has any learning disabilities such as dysgraphia or dyslexia or seek an evaluation through an educational neuropsychologist.
I would also suggest having her vision checked by a developmental optometrist.
If your daughter is the same age as most of the other students in her class, and the other students easily complete the tasks you list here, then there is a problem in the performance of these tasks for your daughter.
Without knowing more about the context of your daughter's life, for example, is she a new student to the school and class, are there major stressors in the home environment, does your daughter have friends, does your daughter have the same problems she has in school, when she is in other environments?Also, who is telling you she has these problems? Are you the one who notices what you describe here or is your daughter or is her teacher telling you these facts? Depending on your answers to the questions, start to get clarity with the classroom teacher and the school guidance counselor as to the source of your daughter's problem.
Good luck!
There could be a number of things going on here.
For instance, have her eyes been checked by an optometrist? She might just not like writing or coloring.
She could be rushing through assignments so that she can spend time with friends, play games, or do something else.
She might need some extra help with fine motor skills.
What are her grades like? Does she rush through other things like cleaning her room or getting ready for bed?
It's hard to tell from the information that you were able to provide here, but talk with her elementary school a guidance counselor.
Someone working with the school (usually a school psychologist) should be able to evaluate her to see if she needs extra help and to tell you more clearly what may be happening.
Your daughter is fortunate to have an observant parent, who is willing to seek out help in this regard.
Regression can be indicative of some stress in your child's life, so the issues she is facing should be examined.
Seeking advice from your daughter's pediatrician, as well as a practitioner familiar with adolescent issues or perhaps play therapy can equip you with insight into the causes of the behavior, and give you tools to assist your daughter in learning age appropriate social interactions.
How you you expressed your regret and taken responsibility for the pain thus far? Repair is a very essential skill in and part of developing healthy relationships.
Your love sounds deep, sit with that.
Also sit with how she's been hurt.
You get to feel your hurt too and your kids.
In feeling all this you may also find our way to the repair.
If feeling all this is tough to take on, seek out a local therapist to support your process.
Hi, I'm Amelia! Oh, this is a common problem, unfortunately! Let me say first of all, that doing more, giving more, loving more, performing more will never provide you with a sense of worth.
Nor will it satisfy those that are critical and judgmental.
I am so sorry to hear that this is what you've heard all your life! You are a human BEING not a human DOING.
If you can get yourself in counseling with a trusted therapist who will accept you, encourage you, hear you and support you, you can begin to work on what truth worth is.
My best to you!
Wow, you got hit with some serious stuff all at once.
Work, relationships, and housing or security are major needs for us and to lose all that at once has got to affect you.
When things go wrong, it is natural for us to look for blame and the easiest person for us to blame is ourselves.
Put that with grief and you've got a recipe for feeling awful.
We can start feeling so low as to want to check out with things like food, and TV as you described.
It can take time for us to move to self-forgiveness, and self-kindness in order to start moving forward again.
I wonder what you can do right now to improve your situation? I also wonder if you may be willing to seek counseling to help you work through some of this, to help with your perspective, and to assist in your grieving process.
Just reading these 3 sentences, I get the sense of you being a nice person.
I hope you can show that kind of kindness to yourself in your healing.
Please practice being kind to yourself!! You lost your grandmother, your home and your job! Huge changes have just taken place and it would be challenging for anyone to be unfazed.
And having said that, you wrote that you have been looking for a job, so that tells me that you have most definitely not failed yourself.
Try taking it one day at a time.
I encourage you to recognize (and even accept) that you're going through a particularly difficult time and that everything is temporary.
When we are in something, it's difficult sometimes to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
Maybe you could allow yourself the grief that you are feeling, be in the tunnel, and trust that you will come through the tunnel to the other side.
Be gentle and loving to yourself.
You've already taken the first step.
You want to not hate yourself.
Self-acceptance is hard! And it's on a spectrum.
On one side we have self-hate, on the other extreme; self-love.
And then, there is all this stuff in the middle.
It kind of looks like thisAnd working toward self-love often means moving around through all these.
Becoming aware of your emotions, exploring the parts of you you that easier and harder to accept, self-kindness, self-forgiveness, self-compassion and ultimately self-love.
It is a recovery process and has to be an active thing each day.
Meeting with a counselor can give you a partner in that process.
Your counselor can also help you to recognize pieces that may be more difficult to see from your eyes as they have an outside view.
And with self-acceptance, confidence comes naturally although you may need to practice behaviors that show assertiveness, confidence and boundaries that protect you.
Wishing you the absolute best with this!
Self-doubt and self-hatred are such common and unpleasant experiences and really worth understanding! Therapy with the right person can really help.
When in your life do you feel the most confident? What gets in the way of you accepting and loving yourself.
You can and will uncover that confident self!
This happens slowly and can be done.
You already are at the first step of realizing that you hate yourself, not that the feelings of self-loathing are the best of what you're able to expect from life.
A way to start building confidence is to pay close attention to the way you handle interactions and make decisions.
If you start to notice what you'd like from an interaction, and afterwards, reflect on how well you handled yourself, especially with any unexpected circumstances, you'll build confidence in your ability to be good at something.
Do you know why you hate yourself?This answer may help you address within yourself , a new type self talk which has more positives in it than what you've been accustomed to telling yourself.
Congrats on having a happiness problem.
Go slowly and tell your partner how you feel as you discover how being loved feels.
On a deep level you are releasing yourself from interaction patterns which treated you poorly and unkindly.
Time is needed of repeated occurrences of this newfound loving behavior toward you.
Gradually you will trust more and more that your new living relationship life is your reality.
It sounds like there are assumptions being made regarding how she feels about you and why she is with you.
I would not suggest breaking up with her without first attempting to resolve your own issues.
You may not only regret your decision, but might find that the exact same problem arises in future relationships.
I would recommend seeing a therapist who can help you figure out what is at the root of all of this.
By learning about your own insecurities and where they come from, you can expect to discover new ways of responding and relating to others, which will likely impact your relationship in a positive manner.
Are you possibly mixing up an impulse to nurture and protect someone, such as by offering housing, and your own need to feel loved and appreciated as a romantic partner?Maybe your feeling of jealousy is really your awareness of a reasonable need to be loved by a partner.
Even though you are quite detailed in your description of your partner, one piece which is missing, is whether you feel you are loved by her.
Maybe too, what she considers your insecurity, is really her unwillgness to love you.
It's always easier to put distance between two people by insulting them.
I hope this gives you a few new ways to look at your situation.
A few therapy sessions, either by yourself or together w your gf, would give you more chance to know more deeply what it is you are facing.
This is an understandable response to early childhood trauma and loss.
Often times when we have overwhelming or difficult experiences as a child including poor care giving, the ways we managed and the feelings we had then show up in our lives as adults.
Especially when we get close to someone, it mirrors our early experiences with caregivers in early life.
So our body, nervous system, and emotions respond in the same way.
They feel as if what we experienced when we were little is happening now and they go into full force to manage and protect us.
Sometimes the ways that happens can feel pretty bad and we can stuck in these loops of old beliefs about ourselves.
Therapy is a great way to interrupt these patterns, process the early experiences, and be able to be in the present with your current relationships.
It is very possible to shift this cycle and also have meaningful healing from the experiences that caused so much hurt and distress from childhood.
You may have reached the natural end point of working very hard in school and putting up with bullies or not knowing how to step to the side of people who bully you.
Both conditions you have been living under, pressure to perform well in school, and the tension of someone bullying you, are quite draining.
Now is probably time to recuperate from your emotional ordeal.
Hobbies may be a little too lighthearted and distracting from the more major task of grounding yourself in feeling secure and settled, especially after such arduous effort academically and socially.
Let your natural self guide you.
If right now you need to simply grow strong again, then allow this process to slowly develop.
Eventually all on its own when the time is right, you will find a hobby.
Now is your time to trust yourself to live the rhythms of your life.
One way may be to take some sort of physical movement class in which you will be regarded by the teacher as one of the students, not the girl who weighs a certain amount.
In a movement class such as pilates, yoga, aerobics, weights, dance, when the standard for clothing is somewhat fitted and shows more of our physical bodies than regular clothing, and to be considered as one of the students, not stigmatized for how much or how little you weigh, may help you be as accepting of yourself as the teacher is of you!
I also want to note that we, as a society, are especially judgemental about how women dress and present themselves.
I am sorry that this boy said something insensitive.
There is nothing shameful about your body and it was not your intention to display everything.
It also wasn't his place to judge you.
As women we are expected to be sexy in some situations and demure in others.
Men don't have the same range of societal expectations to navigate.
You didn't deserve his rudeness.
Everybody does something or a few things in their life which looking back, the person wishes they hadn't.
The key to feeling better is to realize that as long as you learn something for the future from your mistake, then you will be doing all that any human being is capable of doing.
Your mistake sounds genuine, not that you were deliberately trying to create a stir or harm yourself or anyone.
Now that this student in your class pointed out your mistake, you will learn to notice the appearance of your swimwear.
Put in context that feeling foolish for doing something embarrassing means that overall, you generally do most activity in your life, in non-foolish ways.
The incident would only bother someone who generally is responsible.
The mistake is a contrast with what is usual behavior for you.
I hope you'll enjoy swimsuit shopping and find a beautiful bargain!
Sometimes we let our insecurities get the best of us, causing us to make some interesting choices.
Honesty is always the best policy, but honesty comes with risk.
Perhaps you may want to start with your family first, explaining to them what you have done and why.
Perhaps they can help you to practice talking about your insecurities with your friends.
Another way is to start, slowly, to dress more and more like yourself and your true body shape.
Some of your "friends" may make fun of you, true, but then you must ask yourself.
why do you want to be friends with people like that?
Wear baggy clothes to disguise the problem and if you do this for a long enough time, then your friends may forget what size boobs you have.
Can you tell your parents what you wrote here? If yes, then maybe they will be empathetic and this always helps.
They may also agree to not make any comments about your boobs when you wear the bigger bra around your friends when they visit you at home.
Also, its possible your friends already have questioned why you wore a bigger bra than your boobs.
Maybe they saw what was going on the whole time during the school year and felt too awkward to tell you.
It sounds like you have the perception that people are frequently disappointed in you, wish you were different or someone else, and ultimately reject you.
One question I would have for you is what is your evidence that people feel this way? Is there anything in people's words or behaviors that gives you this impression? If your not sure, it may be useful for you to try to notice what people say and do in response to you, even though you perceive these attitudes within them.
Additionally, working with a competent therapist may be a great way to get an answer to your question as well as developing ways to move forward with that answer and gain a sense of self-esteem and security in your relationships.
One possibility that comes to mind, of which there may be more, is that as we grow up, we often develop relational templates, or sets of expectations about how people are and will relate to us, which influence our experiences and behavior in relationships.
Sometimes the templates that we develop to stay connected growing up are not particularly adaptive for adult life and can hamper our self-esteem and capacity for comfortable intimacy as an adult.
You ask a great question here, and one that can be very hard to see through, given the difficulty of feeling that people think of you in this way, and I hope that you will stay curious about this and consider working with a therapist who is trained to help you discover the answer.
I want to add that one way therapy can help with social anxiety is to give you a corrective experience.
Each week, you sit across from someone who genuinely cares about you, who doesn't judge you, and who you can voice your concerns to.
Over time, you show them more and more of yourself, and as they get to know you, they still care about you, they still don't judge you, and they still think you are amazing.
Find a therapist you connect with.
It does sound like your roommate may have a drinking problem, and the short answer is that you can't do anything about it, only she can.
We can't change what other people say, think, or do.
We can only change our reactions.
It does sound like your roommate may be having a hard time.
You can suggest that she enter counseling or therapy.
You can reassure her that you like her if that's true, but you don't have to pity her.
A lot of times it is not about forgiveness but learning from experiences.
As an example, as a child we continously fall in an effort to learn how to walk.
Then when we begin walking we know we have to put one foot in front of the other in order to move forward.
Experiences allow us to grow, find a balance and what to do and what not to do in order to move forward.
On the positive side you now know the consequences as for your actions not to take the same course.
Forgiveness comes with time as you learn how to walk again.
This can be a very difficult question to answer.
Without knowing anything else about the situation - it makes me wonder - what makes you feel like you should break up with him? What brought up thinking about ending things? It will be important to decide if the relationship is safe, if it is healthy, and if it makes you both happy.
Are there reasons you are staying in the relationship that don't make you feel good? It might be helpful to write things out or talk to a trusted friend about what each of your choices means.
What would it be like to end things? What would it be like to stay? Are there issues that the two of you can work on to make the relationship better?
This is a very personal decision that you make when you have evaluated the issues in your couple that you feel are affecting your happiness and well being in your couple.
I recommend completing a compatability checklist to evaluate which areas are making you unhappy.
It is important to discuss these feelings with your partner and determine if together you want to work on these differences.
If there is no agreement to working together to resolve the issues and you cannot accept the issues as they are then a break up may be best.
This can be a very challenging decision, and it may take time for you to sort through all of your feelings about the relationship and its possible end.
Therapy can help you have a space to be completely honest with yourself about your relationship as you grapple with your decision of whether to remain with your boyfriend.
Your therapist can ask questions to guide you in uncovering your true feelings about whether this is the right relationship for you, and he or she can support you in whatever decision you come to.
That's a loaded question.
Typically, if we are contemplating if we should or not, it is for a reason.
To really come to a place of decision, you need to know where you are right now, what is not working, what the potential resolution would be and if it is realistic.
If you can answer those questions, you may gain some insight.
If it is realistic and your boyfriend is on the same page, seek help putting a plan in motion for resolution.
And I mention him being on the same page because if he is not, then it will never come to fruiting.
Without much other information, this is this is a solid approach.
Deciding to end a relationship is never easy, especially if there is not any strong reason or incident standing out to help define the unhappiness in the relationship, such as infidelity or abuse.
All relationships go through low periods where one or both people may feel unhappy in the relationship, this is normal.
What I tell my clients when they are facing this decision is to spend some time and imagine your life without the person in it.
What do you feel when you imagine your life without your boyfriend? Do you see yourself as being happier, having more freedom? When you think of life without him do you feel a weight lift off your shoulders? Is it easier to breathe? Don't rush into any decision about leaving the relationship.
Take as much time as you need to fully understand what it is you are feeling right now.
Ask yourself if some of the unhappiness in the relationship can change, if it is likely to change.
Only when you are confident in your decision to leave should you then have the discussion about leaving the relationship.
I hope this answer gives you some ways of thinking through how to make that very tough decision.
That you are questioning if you should end your relationship with your boyfriend tells me that you are unhappy with him.
Spend sometime by yourself exploring the reasons for that unhappiness.
Are these things likely to change or not?
Without knowing the details, it would be very difficult to say! But, that's also the point of my response.
Because even with the details, it's very hard to say, as no one is experiencing the relationship in your shoes, except for you.
It might be helpful to process this in therapy, or with your boyfriend directly and voice your concerns about the relationship.
In any successful relationship, the research has shown that openness in communication is vital.
That all being said, I would also add, with a lot of curiosity.
If you have to ask the question, does that say something about what you feel is the quality of the relationship?
If you're asking the question, then probably you are pretty close to ending your relationship.
Make a list of what you don't like and then decide whether you'd like to tell these topics to your boyfriend as a discussion about your relationship.
He may have similar feelings and together the two of you may figure out new ways to be loving with each other.
If you've presented your needs and no change results, then ask yourself if you can be happy with him, given what you now realize about him and your feelings.
There is always hope.
So don't give up on hope.
However, you knew I would say that, there is a lot work ahead of you.
You need to see someone to talk things out.
Get some space between you and your husband.
Don't chase and please don't stalk him.
Do some deep searching as to why he left and what part you had to cause the split.
You can't change him but you are in control of your own change.
With the help of a professional counselor you can get help and direction where you need to change.
I believe there's always hope.
I also believe that you are worthy of respect and love.
I'm curious if you felt loved, cherished, and respected by your husband during your time together.
Feeling willing to go to any extreme to save the marriage is common, but having to do things that go against your values sets you up to develop a lot of resentment.
It sounds like you did not want to be separated from your husband, but now that it's happened, you can make the choice to focus on yourself, rediscovering, or discovering for the first time, what you really want out of life.
Taking some time to grieve the loss of your marriage and practice self-care can help in the immediate aftermath.
Are there dreams that you put on a shelf during your marriage that you could reignite? By considering the dreams and desires you had at the beginning of your marriage, you might find some direction for what to do next.
I would focus on YOU right now.
We cannot control him, his actions, his love, or his decisions.
But we can work on you.
Think about a few things: What do you want? What do you love about him? What made you two separate? What do you think about being in a relationship where your partner does not love you? Does that seem fair? He may want to work things out or he may be done.
He may be done for a short period of time or be done forever.
No one can answer that which is why I think you should change the focus.
If you do get back together, will you still trust him to not leave you? What if he does not love you?If you never get back together, can you still have a healthy, happy life? Can you mourn that relationship but also learn from it?I want you to be strong, happy, and healthy with or without him.
So yes, there is hope for you - with or without him.
Most important is to take care of your feelings regarding that he has left you.
From your description there doesn't seem to be much hope your husband would like to keep the marriage going.
Has a long time passed since the two of you separated? Sometimes, and really this is very rare, people decide to return to their marriage.
If he impulsively decided to leave and now is a short while since he did this, then there is some hope he will decide to stay together.
If he's been out of the house for a while and tells you what you wrote, then there is greater chance he's had time to think through to split and will follow through.
As painful as it is to hear that someone with whom you'd like to be, doesn't want to be with you, accepting your hurt feelings will eventually let you come to peace with your feelings.
To keep hoping against the facts of what he's said to you, only makes your own pain intensify.
Who takes care of your son, is a significant part of getting over your heartbreak.
If you made reasonable custody terms re your son then the relationship heartache is much easier to recover from than if your mother vanished from his life, or if the mother wants nothing to do w him.
Re the actual relationship, let yourself feel sad and hurt since this is the truth.
Usually life gradually fills in new people, including a relationship once you feel strong enough from having endured such sadness and loss.
I recognize that you say you are missing being with the love of your life.
At the same time, I don't understand whether you are able to see your son.
I'm curious as to the relationship dynamic between you and your son's mother.
When you say that she never looked back, I imagine you are conveying that getting back together is not something that she is interested in.
I would suggest that you talk with a therapist and your local area so that you have the ability to discuss the loss of this person who you love so much.
Most people think of grief related to the loss of someone who has died, But it also applies to people who have a significant loss, whether that is a relationship, a job, or any number of other things.
In the meantime, try finding something about yourself that you value and can focus on.
My answer is yes, you should tell her because you have a child with her.
She is the mother of your son, and this new baby would be his half sister.
I think telling her is mature and appropriate.
Usually procrastinating just makes it worse.
Another thing to consider.
Would you want her to tell you if she was pregnant with her boyfriends baby? Hope this helps, take care!
What you're most likely trying to get over is to be attracted to the qualities which you felt attracted to in the person.
The problem isn't releasing yourself from the person, per se.
Letting go of a person means separating yourself from the qualities in a partner which you value.
Two possibilities exist.
Either you continue to feel strongly that the qualities in the past relationship are still meaningful and you'd like to base your next relationship on these qualities.
Or, the person had qualities which are no longer relevant or necessary in your life and this is the reason the relationship ended.
It is possible that even if you had an adequate exposure to certain qualities in someone that you simply miss the companionship of a relationship.
See if you can figure out whether you need the qualities this person gave you or whether you simply like being part of a couple.
If you like the particular qualities of your previous parter and these are still relevant to your life, you'll attract a partner who has similar qualities.
Basically people attract what they need.
The more open you are to attracting what you need in a partner, the more likely your next partner will have these qualities.
In this way, you'll get over the particular person and still have the satisfaction to be in a relationship.
What if we think about this in metaphor: imagine a dirt road suddenly paved over - where before it was small, once paved, it was faster, smoother and suddenly you, the driver, knew what real driving could feel like.
Then your road got a pothole: now, every time you drive, you hit that hole, and it only seems to get worse, the more you drive over it.
Until that hole is patched - until you choose to fill your heart with either love for another or love for yourself - you might find it challenging to keep driving on your road.
Instead of letting go of how you felt, try to hang on to that feeling, just direct it inwards: you've shared you're capable of feeling strongly for another, surely, you're worthy of that same regard?
There is no wrong or right way to define a relationship.
I believe each relationship we are in is an opportunity to expand and to know self on a deeper level.
We are conditioned to believe that we are not valued, or worth much without the confirmation of others and the world around us.
Give yourself time and try to not go to those who are toxic and enjoy the drama of others lives as s way to avoid looking at themselves.
Love is a deep and nuanced feeling so start to accept that a simple cutting of emotional connection isn't possible.
Honor the love you felt for this person.
Acknowledgement of your love feelings will most likely help you find a dignified way to accept them while at the same time slowly developing new ways to live your life in a way which does not include the actual person.
Your feelings will always belong to you.
The newly discovered sense of how love feels will be with you and positively influence all your relationships.
There is a benefit to feeling loved even if it is not forever in this lifetime.
Also, your partner opened your feelings, the feelings which showed in fact already were within you.
He opened the door and this door belongs to you.
I hope you will find ways to appreciate having been loved and to be open that your feelings of being loved are a positive influence in all your relationships.
What a burden for you!Your husband cannot seem to make up his mind on his viewpoint and doesn't seem to care whether or not you're affected by speaking out of two sides of his mouth.
Keep yourself protected emotionally from him.
There's no good which can come by arguing with a person who flips their position.
Live as separately as possible from him and stick to roommate type matters such as groceries, bill paying and housecleaning as discussion topics.
If he cannot make sense of what he thinks and feels, then certainly you will face similar difficulty trying to do so!
Hello! Emotions run high in "crush" situations and when emotions run high it's not uncommon for us to have emotion-based instead of fact-based thoughts.
After reading your question, I wondered how you went from "making out" to "nothing happened"? I wondered if this happened because of an emotion-based thought that sounded like If he liked me, he would make something happen.
A truer and more empowering thought might be "I want something different to happen with him and I want to take a different action to see if that can happen".
This thought focuses more on the one thing you can control: YOU.
Hopefully, the thought also empowers you to think through what you can do to gauge interest/talk with him about his feelings on the matter.
I hope this helps and good luck to you!
The offspring are your Property;If you require that no other man show inappropriate content to them, then require compensation for use and enjoyment of your Property, without your consent;Send them a bill;When they do not pay it, activate the local Sheriff, take them to small claims court, and win a judgment against them for failure to compensate for the use and enjoyment of your Property;I wonder what might happen after that learn to act as man  and watch the magic happen.
From what you write, it sounds like you're reaching quite far into your child's father's way to handle his friendships.
There's a difference between an agreement between you and the child's father to not view porn, and with you monitoring and setting standards for your child's father's way to handle his social life.
Try to accept the limits of your request extends to you and the child's father, not the way the child's father wants to handle his relationships with other people.
Also, pushing too hard or setting your expectations of the child's father too wide for him to tolerate may end up backfiring on you.
Who knows, maybe he'll decide "enough is enough" and withdraw from the otherwise reasonable agreement to not watch porn.
In my book, this is a boundary issue.
Although you do not like inappropriate content, it is not up to you what your child's father looks at or what his friend sends him.
It is really hard not to monitor other people's lives, but in the end, your rights begin and end with you.
It sounds like you are wanting to protect your child from degrading images and that is one of the important parts of the job of a parent.
Although it is challenging to supply an answer without knowing the full situation, it might be helpful to have a more broad discussion about what you both think about the influences and images that your child is exposed to and what you think your role is in protecting your child.
This situation is one about beliefs and values and could well be an example you can use for exploring your parenting roles in protecting your child.
This interaction with your boss seems strange.
It is tricky to know how to handle workplace conflicts, but there are typically resources in place to help employees and mangers communicate successful and feel confident that they are being treated fairly at work.
Is there an HR department that you can use as a mediator?
I think it's important to tease more of this situation out to figure out what is at the root of the stress.
It is emotionally dangerous to be at a job for a lengthy duration in which you feel overworked and underpaid.
You will not perform well as you mention, and thus your self-esteem will continually take a hit without really any effort.
So, I don't know that simply coping with your stress would be advisable as a first step.
Hello.
Workplace stress is one of those areas of living that troubles many people who need an income to survive.
The interactions between you and coworkers is a mixed bag, and sorting that out can be difficult.
Also, if you are feeling under appreciated and not well paid, this can add bitterness to your lot of emotions.
A few questions can be kept in mind as you work through your situation.
Do you have the option of talking to your employer about your experiences and feelings with regard to your current work? Do you have local resources that you can use to find different jobs in your field? Do you have connections with employment counselors or agencies that can support you with strategies in dealing with workplace stress? These questions might cause others to bubble up, and could begin a new journey into a new field.
While still at your job, what can you do to take care of yourself? Are you taking breaks? Do you eat lunch at the office, or do you go somewhere away from the office to eat? What do you do when you have a few moments to breathe? Understanding that you can indeed find even the smallest strategies useful for self-care, can help bolster your energy and give you some support as you move through the day.
Seeking the support of family and friends can be helpful as well.
Knowing your personal limits and when to pull back and take a break will give you a chance to recharge your mental and physical energy, thus helping you face the demands of your job.
It sounds like you are experiencing burnout and have very little, if no job satisfaction.
There are some aspects of this that are in your control and others that are not.
What type of work do you typically enjoy? Do you enjoy high stress work? What keeps you in this job? Is there a reason you have stayed? Is your boss reasonable to have a conversation with? I recommend a few things.
For one, you may want to have a discussion with your boss about your job duties and see if there is a way to either eliminate some responsibilities or get higher pay.
Another option, if you are unable to have an open conversation, you can start to look at an ideal work situation, what would you like be OK with absolutely hate about a job.
Then possibly try to look for a new job that fits these qualifications.
If you are unable to leave your job, you may want to attempt to balance your work life with more activities that create joy outside of work.
Sometimes that balance can help you tolerate work more.
I recommend that you find a supportive person to talk with and process these frustrations as burnout can lead us to do things we may regret.
Recognize your reason for continuing to work for this place.
Sometimes "overworked and underpaid" is tolerable bc of the valuable learning which the person will take with them when they've decided the time has come for these lessons to end.
Or, are you in this place bc it is an easy commute to your home or fits well with other parts of your life such as education or some health related program?As long as you have a good reason to be there, you will feel there is good purpose.
If there is no good purpose and every day you wake up to work for a place you can't stand, then its time to look for a new position.
There are many possible ways dating your boss could go awry and jeopardize your occupational well-being so my recommendation is to hold off on presenting your boss with a personalized gift and instead focus on building attraction and romantic interest with someone who is not at the workplace.
Sometimes the element of power and unavailability can heighten our sexual interest but that doesn't mean it's a healthy idea to pursue someone who is in a position of power over you at your workplace.
Human attractions can be tricky things, and in this case - a power dynamic.
In the workplace, a boss usually has the power to hire, fire, set schedules, approve vacations, and evaluate performance.
Because of this power dynamic, most employee handbooks expressly forbid supervisors and their direct employees being in a romantic relationship.
Perhaps you should check your employee handbook.
It is possible that if you or your supervisor act on your feelings, one of you might have to be reassigned, or if no reassignment is available, asked to resign.
While you may be attracted to your boss, and your feelings may be strong, it might be in your best interests to resist acting upon them.
You may not get her to understand your point of view with any more success than your wife is having with you to do the same.
It is possible you are a balanced couple in the sense of neither one of you understanding the other.
The deeper question to ponder is whether each of you can accept the other person even though you each have very different terms for defining "cheating".
You will find either there are enough strong similarities to keep the two of you happy as a couple, or there aren't these similarities.
Then, the new question would be whether either of you want to address your findings or not.
Here is the truth: You will never get her to understand! because that would mean changing her and we can't change other people we can only change ourselves.
I would recommend to take the time to self reflect on what exactly it is that you are doing that is contributing to the mixup.
You both have very valid feelings and those won't magically go away until you address the root problem (which could be many factors).
I am curious to know more about past relationships the both of you have had and how that plays a role in your current relationship.
Many times we don't realize how past relationships truly impact our current behaviors.
Getting your first job is an exciting, terrifying, and challenging experience.
It is something you will remember for a long time and it shapes how you begin to think about yourself as a worker.
You are literally "learning as you go" in this completely new environment.
You are going to make mistakes.
You are not going to get it right the first time.
It can be even more challenging if you are having a difficult time building relationships that are supportive at work.
How sad for you!I'm sorry your first job is turning into a place of tension.
Did the matter between you and your boss get resolved?Do you feel respected by your boss and does she listen to your point of view, even if afterwards, she disagrees?Keep an open mind over the next several weeks or few months on how you feel in your new work situation.
Expect to be treated fairly and reasonably.
If this is not the way you feel most of the time, then consider finding a new place to work.
If this is a concern of a few coworkers, make sure it is not something they see but you don't admit to.
Employers can "suggest" or something "stipulate" in continued employment with them for you to go to their Employment Assistance Provider (EAP) if they have noticed the same behavior and concerned of how it is effecting productivity or employee relationships.
No one wants to work in a environment which they consider hostile.
Employers can be held responsible if they do not take action.
Couple of things you can do.
Ask a coworker in which you trust and respect if what others are saying is true?Seek professional help from your primary care provider or counselor if mood swings do exist.
It sounds like you have mixed feelings and motivations - which is understandable.
On the one hand you want to get over him, on the other you are still holding out hope for something more.
It will be really hard to let go of him and create friend boundaries so long as there is a part of you holding on to the idea of something more.
If you are being really honest with yourself you might need to acknowledge that you are not really striving to get him out of your system - that you have not really given up hope of having a relationship with him.
If you are whole-heartedly committed to moving past the sexual and romantic parts of your relationship and just having a friendship than refraining from all the touching would be a good place to start.
It is hard to "just be friends" when all your sex and bonding hormones are coursing through your veins.
It sounds like a tricky situation.
If you want to maintain your friendship and continue to have regular contact with him, getting over him may not be possible.
What makes it even trickier is that his actions (hugs and touching) may be misleading and are allowing you to believe that a romantic relationship is possible.
Some ways in which we naturally get over others are when we fall in love with someone else or when we suddenly see the person we like in a more negative or unattractive light.
If you truly want to force yourself to get over him, cutting contact or setting strict boundaries may be necessary.
If you don't see him, over time you can begin to forget about him.
If you set boundaries by discontinuing to allow the hugs and touches, you will not feel mislead or have the idea in your mind that he is being flirtatious or interested.
It would be difficult to continue the relationship as is and expect your feelings to change.
Thus, being proactive by talking to him about boundaries or cutting contact with him are two things you can do that will likely help you to get over him.
Good luck!
Generally, the ethical codes only prohibit relationships with clients.
There are however a few types of counselor-to-counselor relationships that are prohibited by the ethics codes.
Such prohibited relationships include those between supervisors and supervisees; between professors and students; or any time the relationship might negatively impact your (or their) clients.
Lastly, some workplaces have rules against dating coworkers.
It would be a good idea to check if there is such a rule that applies to you.
What exactly is it that you are looking for? Different people define themselves in different ways.
For example, one person may define himself by his values and morals while another identifies herself by her personality and characteristics.
Still, another person may define himself by his interests and hobbies.
Learning who you are as a person can take time and life experience.
At the same time, who you are may change according to what experiences you have had and how you have dealt with them or felt about them.
Try viewing the journey of finding yourself as exciting and ongoing.
Allow yourself to feel emotions and learn how they relate to the experiences you have.
This may help you to know more about what you value, what you like and dislike, and what you want for yourself in life.
Best of luck to you!
Three years ago I attended a week long meditation retreat.
By the fifth day I noticed I was light headed and felt very strange.
I began to realize within my own being an experience of no separation.
I would see others at the retreat and smile.
I loved them all.
I could feel the connection with this awareness I had read about but never truly understood until that moment.
I remember understanding all the teachings I had learned throughout my life about a god who existed outside of me.
I realized I had all these answeres within my own being and so did everyone else.
I began to see everyone as not just capable but powerful loving beings.
Since this experience it has been my desire for everyone to become conscious within whatever experience they wish.
I do this in many ways.
At our studio we combine Mental Health with yoga and meditation as well as nutrition counseling to help people come to their optimal selves.
To truly come into a state of "finding yourself", is to start to know and own who you are from a state of solid being.
In this there is nothing new under the sun, and it is very simple.
I would love to teach you and anyone interested in coming into a state of awake conciousness.
The more awake we are the more joyful we are.
I live in this state of being and demonstrate it in my daily life.
Therapy may be an effective way for you to get a stronger sense of who you are.
A competent therapist will work to create a safe and curious therapeutic relationship in which you can explore your identity.
There are also many different exercises which you can do in and out of therapy which you may find helpful in this area as well.
This quiet wonder that you have is something you can easily explore.
There is a part of you that you can access anytime, anywhere.
It is the part that has always been with you.
Find a quiet place where you can be alone for a while and get comfortable.
Settle in.
Let your thoughts go by like a river.
Stay with that connection for a while.
What you find in the silence is yours alone, your "you".
Start by giving yourself enough quiet and time to remember about yourself what feels steady and consistent in your nature and interactions with others.
Give yourself the freedom to your interest in having interests.
Are you motivated because of competing with others or because an activity itself feels satisfying?If you are able to develop a sense of defining yourself without fear of judging yourself, you will start coming close to knowing who you are.
Because you put this under the category of spirituality, I'm not sure whether you are asking how you find yourself as far as religious or spiritual beliefs or overall.
If you are talking about learning more about religious or spirituality, consider either going to or speaking with someone who is involved with a nondenominational church service (the Salvation Army usually has something) so you can discuss questions or ideas that you may have.
As far as finding yourself in general, I suggest considering what makes you happy and/or comfortable.
I also wonder if looking at the list of values here may be helpful to you.
This is perhaps the deepest question that one can ask of themselves and the answer is as elusive as the deepest enigma.
We are fluid beings, we are never the same from day to day, we learn or unlearn, we evolve or some of us even devolve, we are in a state of constant flux, changing and adapting, like a cloud in the sky that has its shape changed by the wind, life whittles us away and carves us constantly, trying to understand this question is like trying to bite your own teeth, however we can have a sense of what we would call our core and to understand the core, we need to live and to experience, but also to think deeply, analytically, and critically, by engaging with life we get a sense that we are like the Earth itself, inside of us there is a core, just as there is inside our planet but our continents shift and change over time, like those continents so does our own nature shift throughout our lives.
Desire to inhabit the opposite sex's body derives from too fast of a re-entry into a new (feminine) body, after being released in a previous life, from an old (masculine) body.
You remember the previous life's connection with the masculine experience and body, and wish to find a way to be more comfortable.
We will approach this matter, spiritually, and I reckon you'll feel a great deal better.
It is really important for you to be comfortable with your identity.
With that said, it is also so important for you to be safe.
It may be helpful for you to find supports (in your life, community, or online) that you can talk about how you feel and potentially gain supportive persons if your family does not accept you.
It will be really important to connect with others and even a counselor to help you.
Chances are your family already knows, they are probably just waiting on confirmation from you to say it.
A parent knows their child.
Spirituality for those in the LGBTQ community can be one of the more difficult roads.
Unfortunately, many unjustly ostracize members of the LGBTQ community away from faith and spirituality.
I believe that folks can embrace the identity that is genuine to them, and still maintain their spiritual beliefs! Briefly, the keys are to first monitor how we allow those in our life to influence our thoughts and emotions.
We need to create standards and boundaries to protect ourselves.
We also need to not project the judgment of other people onto our individual spiritual beliefs! There are many ways in which to tackle this effort!
Ultimately, to suppress your natural identity will work against you.
However difficult, painful, frightening, it is to tell your family about your discovery about who you are, trying to avoid your own truth will do you harm eventually.
One way to make this conversation easier for yourself is to prepare yourself for the outcomes you expect and know will be difficult.
Take as much time as you need to accept the potential rejection because this way iff and when it comes you will be better able to handle it.
You might ask your fiance about people who have let him down in the past; past hurts from parents, friends, people he has dated.
If you are speaking about jealousy he may come from a divorced parent upbringing, may have seen parents cheat on one or the other, may have had partners cheat on him in the past.
He may have fears that you may go off the "straight and narrow" once you get married.
Listen to any concerns with patience and understanding, avoid being defensive.
I would highly encourage pre-marital counseling to explore these things and individual counseling for himself to work on fears and anxieties.
If he refuses and things do not improve I would consider postponing the wedding, things will not get better once you get married, only magnified.
Finally show him Bible passages about forgiveness and worry and leaning on God with faith and hope for the future.
God bless.
You are right that his insecurities are at the root of the issue.
You cannot change that for him.
He will have to do the work to handle those emotions on his own.
What you can do is reassure him in whatever ways possible, but always recognizing that you can't "fix" this for him.
When I work with people who struggle with their partner's past experiences, I always frame it like this: Everything that you've experienced has resulted in you being the person you are today.
The person they claim to love.
If you had not gone through some of those experiences, you would not be in the position you're in now, ready to commit to him and know that you're satisfied with that.
Just as when bad things happen to us, we have to find a way to appreciate the lessons learned your fiance has to accept that you're the person you are today because of what you have gone through.
Celebrate that you have moved through that and have landed in this perfect position with him!Hope that helps,Allison.
Your patience with his pace of accepting your past, is the factor most in your control in this situation.
Everyone accepts a new understanding at their own particular rate.
Yours may be faster than his pace.
Since it is possible he may accelerate his pace of accepting your past if he knows that this is a priority for you, tell him about your own discomfort .
Even if knowing how you feel does not motivate him to a quicker pace of accepting your past, you will have the peace of mind to know you gave him all the information you possibly had to give.
Sometimes we have difficulty keeping the past in the past.
The best way to build a great relationship and have a great future, believe it or not, is to be firmly placed in the present.
That means that when we stay in the moment with our partner and can notice what we are experiencing in the here and now we reap the best benefits of that relationship.
We notice the good things that are happening in the moment.
We are reacting to what we are experiencing in the moment, not reacting to a worry about the past.
We notice, especially, who the person is right now and not who they were in the past.
We can connect with the things we love about them, too.
I think it is great that you want to help him and the choice to stay in the present and move forward in the relationship will mostly be up to him.
We cannot change another person.
It sounds like couples counseling might be a great step for you because you can both learn the skills you need to stay in the present and also learn some helpful "active listening" skills so that you can really listen to one another and understand each other.
Communication skills can really be helpful.
You can both have the opportunity to hear each other and support each other.
We cannot change the past, but we can create the future we want.
Best of luck to you both!
Thanks for posting.
This is a significant issue for many people and can make us feel helpless; among other emotions due to the uncertainty.
You said that, at times, you feel like everyone is lying.
Ask yourself some of these questions.
What is it that makes you feel so strongly that they are lying? Where is the concrete evidence that they are lying? How could I test my thoughts about this? What if things are not what they seem on the surface? Am I any lesser of a person as a result of this person's behavior or opinion? Our beliefs about ourselves and the people and our world and how we interpret information and experiences have a significant effect on how we feel and how we behave.
It is important to objectively challenge the beliefs that contribute to negative emotions.
You can start this process by answering some of the above questions.
We are unfortunately influenced by what and who we associate with.
As it pertains to if God is a lie; be honest with yourself and question your beliefs that tell you that God is or is not real.
It may be helpful for you to speak to a preacher or chaplain of some sort and they can help you with a lot of that.
Hope this helps at least a little bit.
It is not a stupid question, it is very basic.
To help answer your question, let me begin with the premise that you will never have absolute proof.
With that being said, one can look at different phenomena in nature and history and figure what is the statistical probability that they happened randomly.
If one comes to the logical conclusion that many are quite improbable, then there must be a guiding force and plan.
May you be successful in your journey.
I'm not a super religious person.
But I can't imagine that if you love him that much and you want him that much, that he wouldn't be the one for you because of something small like that.
Sex is an act of love and commitment.
If you feel that you want to be with this person for the rest of your life, want to marry them, then why should you have to wait until marriage? If you truly feel that this is the person you want to be with, then why would you need to wait until marriage if you're just showing commitment to each other?
Having sex with your boyfriend is and was a mistake.
Mistakes can be forgiven and you can make amends.
But it is not the end of your relationship or God's will for you.
Have a serious talk with your guy and get back on track with where you want to be.
Talk to a counselor or your priest/pastor.
Get someone to be your guide and mentor.
Check in with them regularly.
Getting back to square one could actually strengthen your relationship.
Have a plan for the future where you will not be put into a place of temptation.
Group dates, public places and no alone time where temptations might arise.
Forgive yourself and move on.
You already are doing that! You are reaching out.
You are accepting your past, you are not denying what happened to you, you are talking about the past.
You are already doing a great job of starting this journey.
You get your life back by doing things differently.
I would think about how you would like to process your past.
Do you want to talk to someone? Do you want to write about it? Do you want to pray about it? Do you want to read and research books about trauma? Take some time and think about what you want to do.
Think about what would work for you and dive in.
I am a Licensed Professional Counsellor, so I am biased - but I really believe that counselling works.
Having an objective, professional voice that can guide you on this process is so valuable.
But please choose what makes you feel comfortable - not what everyone else says.
I think you are very brave for reaching out and wanting to work on this.
That takes a tremendous amount of courage and strength.
I'm so sorry you had that horrible experience! It's common for those who've experienced childhood trauma(s) to not disclose the events until later in life.
Sometimes it doesn't feel safe enough to share the information until the person who hurt them is far away, or even dead.
Trusting and vulnerability are difficult, especially when we've been hurt.
So, it's not uncommon for clients to share that their desire to be close to their loved one (emotionally, physically and/or sexually) doesn't match the reality of what they are able to actually experience.
But there is hope! You have met a loving and caring man, and you have a self-awareness that you did not experience before.
I am confident that the help of a licensed professional counsellor (preferably trained in trauma recovery) can help you navigate this healing journey and help you gain the tools needed for the life you want.
Have you explained to your prospective partner about the feeling of vulnerability which you've got? Disclosing one's truth to a trusted person will improve your sense of feeling safe and loved.
It may also take off the pressure you feel to complete your own trajectory of making peace with your past burdens of life.
If you find your possible new partner is patient and understanding, then you've both removed pressure off yourself and will feel validated and loved for speaking your plain truth and finding it well accepted.
If you continue to hide your deeper complexity, or if you explain yourself and ask for the person's patience and understanding, and he avoids giving this to you, then you're better off knowing sooner than later the limit of understanding which this potential partner has.
Hi! It is a great question! The term you are looking for the inability to identify and describe emotions in the self.
However, just because you are not able to feel or express emotions, does not mean that you do not have emotions.
After such a traumatic event that you experienced, your central nervous system goes into defensive mode (dorsal vagal nerves) that protect you from any further harm.
What this means is if you were to feel your emotions related to your rape, you would have a sense of being overwhelmed, possibly re-experiencing the traumatic event.
Not feeling emotions is your body's way of protecting you from any further trauma.
Unfortunately, when the (parasympathetic) dorsal vagal system (shutting down feeling) is activated and suppresses your painful emotions (pain, shame, guilt, sadness, anger), it also shuts down your positive and relational emotions (love, joy, contentment, connectedness, happiness).
I am very sorry that you had to go through such a traumatic experience as being raped.
No one knows what is going on inside of you as a result.
You don't know what is happening to your emotional wellbeing! The best (and at times, difficult and scary) thing is to process your emotions related to your trauma.
This processing is done carefully, with a trained counsellor, in a place that you feel safe, heard, and not judged.
Although the thought of proceedings (addressing) emotions may be anxiety-inducing, it brings on a huge sense of relief and validation.
What you are going through is normal, considering what happened to you! I hope you reach out for more help.
I'm so sorry you've been hurt.
It's very normal to stop feeling emotions as a way to protect yourself after experiencing a traumatic event.
You can think of it as emotional shock-- you experienced something that was so awful that you have numbed yourself (mind and body) as a way to stop the emotional and physical pain of the event.
It's actually pretty amazing that our selves know how to do this automatically.
And, I hear you saying that you'd like to get some feeling back now.
So here are some ideas for how you can change this: I think it would be a great idea to find an experienced therapist you like and trust and/or a good support group so that you can have some allies as you go through this process.
You also could try journaling.
If you're not sure what to write then check out this list of prompts to get you started (it's for teachers, but I really like it).
There's also art journaling.
Pinterest has lots of suggestions.
Meditation could be useful.
There are lots of apps available that offer guided meditations.
Yoga, tai chi, or chi gong might also help.
I have lots of other ideas, but without knowing more about you I'm reluctant to make suggestions that could accidentally make you feel worse.
This protective mechanism of numbing yourself kicked in for a good reason and as you get your feelings back, you may find some pretty challenging reactions coming up.
I guess my final piece of advice to is encourage you to trust yourself and gently go at your own pace in your healing.
I hope this was helpful.
Terrible things do happen in life, and I am sorry to hear about what happened to you.
Please rest assured that you are not a sociopath, and that your reactions are normal responses to traumatic events.
I'm guessing you are experiencing a sense of numbness, which is a common response to trauma.
As you process your experience, you will be able to feel emotions again.
However, the first feelings to come back may be related to trauma, such as fear, panic, and a sense of hyper vigilance.
A professional counsellor will be able to help you tolerate these feelings, manage them, and heal from your trauma.
I don't need to tell you that this is an incredible amount of serious stuff to happen in a short period.
When we go through a trauma, it is natural for us to shut down as a way to protect ourselves.
A kind of freeze response.
Think of a possum or a gazelle.
These animals go so far as to physically freeze in protection.
Our emotions do the same thing sometimes.
We feel shut down and that can be strange---a kind of disconnection.
This does not mean that you are sociopath or that your feelings will never come back.
The amazing thing though is that as time moves forward we naturally heal and emotions come back.
If you feel stuck, seeking counselling is a way to help accelerate this healing and help you work through and begin healing.
Wishing you the absolute best!
IÕm sorry to know this happened to you! This is a normal response to traumatic events.
When we are pushed to the extreme and we are unable to escape, we which numbs us from pain but disconnects us from our bodies.
We oftentimes continue to feel that disconnection until we work through these traumas.
I would suggest working through your traumas with a therapist with methods like EMDR, somatic experiencing, yoga therapy, etc to get your emotions and fullness of life back!
I am so sorry this has happened to you! I hope you have some people you find emotionally supportive around you! In terms of your question, I understand what you are talking about.
Sometimes when a person experiences a traumatic event, an event called Dissociation occurs.
Dissociation is the brain's way of temporary creating and increasing  Òemotional distanceÓ between what is happening and what you are feeling and experiencing.
This is a kind of natural coping mechanism, and it can occur just prior to, during, and after an event has occurred.
People describe the feeling as being "numb," or detached from others, their surroundings, and even from their own body.
All of these descriptions are accurate and they are your brain's attempt to try and keep you safe from emotions that may otherwise overwhelm you.
This is good, in the short-term, because you are not having to immediately face and cope with the immensely painful feelings associated with your trauma.
But it is also not-so-good in that it also blocks your ability to feel positive and pleasurable emotions.
So while your brain is protecting you, it is also preventing feelings you need now more than ever (such as regaining a sense of safety, soothing your hurts, and feeling empowered for your survival).
You are not a sociopath, so do not worry about that, but I would strongly recommend that you consider seeing a therapist or other supportive mental health professional to help you work through what is happened.
There are ways for you to heal from your experience which will help you get back to a place where you can feel safe enough to "feel" again.
It might be an uncomfortable journey, at times, but you are already hurting and your life is being negatively impacted, now.
Good therapy sometimes is like pulling out a splinter--it may hurt a bit to dig that sucker out, but once it's out, your body can finally start to heal.
It might seem better (and less painful) to leave it alone, and ignore (avoid) it.
But you risk INFECTION by your inaction which will be 100 x worse than just digging it out.
Best of luck to you! .
You are describing a very legitimate reaction to trauma.
Rape is an bad experience and I am very sorry that happened to you.
When horrible things happen, people often react in a way that interferes with the ability to live a normal life and function the way they did in the past.
This is very common and the goal is to help you manage the stress caused by dealing with negative events and with help you can regain emotional well-being.
This is especially important if you have had more than one negative thing happen.
Oftentimes, the unconscious reaction is to become numb and avoid all feelings, especially if more than one negative event occurred.
A big part of what causes people trouble are feelings of guilt.
We often blame ourselves when bad things happen.
It is actually difficult to comprehend the concept that we don't always have control of what happens in life.
In addition, when you mentioned feeling like a sociopath, it sounded like you feel like your reaction is wrong.
The first thing you can do is realize that your feelings and reactions are o.
K.
, you aren't doing anything wrong, and nothing is wrong with you.
The next step is to start dealing with the impact of these traumatic experiences.
Identifying your feelings, and knowing the thoughts and beliefs that are behind those emotions can help you regain your sense of happiness.
Research shows that understanding and expressing those thoughts and feelings can help.
If doesn't sound like you need to do anything to change yourself, but talking to a counsellor can be helpful in managing your reaction to a incredibly traumatic experience.
I hope this helps you understand your feelings and can get to a place where you enjoy life.
First and foremost, be gentle and patient with yourself.
It is normal to feel a range of emotions after a severe trauma including no emotions at all.
Try not to push yourself to feel, just notice the lack of emotion you are experiencing right now.
Maybe write about your emotions and the lack of them or talk about it with a safe person.
Unfortunately recovering from trauma can take time and it's best done at your own pace.
If you aren't feeling there may be a reason you aren't feeling.
For severe trauma I always recommend working with a trained trauma professional who has the training to guide you on your path to healing fully.
Sociopaths don't know they are sociopaths.
Clearly, you realize you have pretty deep emotions and have lived through several severely distressing situations.
Your sense of self may be protecting for a while until you recover the practical aspects of daily life and feel some sense of predictability and stability in your life.
Knowing and feeling disturbing emotions which rupture basic trust that other people are safe, is ItÕs self a raw process.
Yes, it is possible to become numb emotionally.
 The good purpose is to protect you from additional hurt.
When your inner world feels ItÕs self ready, more of your emotions from the recent distressing events will be accessible.
If many months pass and you see no progress, then definitely consider a few sessions with a therapist who would be able to guide you to become more open to your feelings.
You're not a sociopath - you're traumatized.
Shutting off feelings is our brain's automatic way of protecting us when something bad happens and we just can't deal with any more pain.
It's temporary - which is both good and bad news, because after the numb goes away and your brain decides you're ready to handle it, you'll feel the emotional pain.
My advice is to get a therapist ASAP so you have a safe place and a safe person when that happens.
This is a horrible thing that happened to you, but you are not a horrible person.
With good therapy you will learn to assimilate this into the rest of your life.
You'll never forget, but you won't have the same pain about it.
Good luck! You can do this!
I am so sorry to hear about what happened to you! What you are describing is being in a state of shock.
You haven't suddenly become a sociopath - this is a normal reaction to an event that is completely overwhelming.
There are most likely too many feelings to feel right now.
ItÕs wisdom to shutting them down.
You absolutely can recover, and it would be really important to get some trauma counselling with a counsellor who feels safe for you to talk with.
This is not the kind of situation to try and handle totally on your own.
You are right on to recognize that the effects of trauma can be cumulative.
It is very possible that a car accident could lead to an increase in PTSD symptoms that were related to other traumatic experiences.
A car accident can be scary and possibly trigger your symptoms of PTSD.
It is good that you recognize the possibility of this occurring.
Not everyone who experiences a car accident develops PTSD.
The chances are definitely increased due to your prior diagnosis during military service.
You're more likely to scan your environment for potential sources of threats.
4.
Avoidance.
Because of the anxiety that often follows an accident, it's natural that you may want to avoid some situations or experience hesitation at times.
If you experience any of these symptoms or feel other symptoms of PTSD it would be advisable to seek help possibly through your local VA Medical Clinic or a private practitioner.
There are certain modalities such as EMDR that can help with your symptoms.
There are many types of traumas, and they certainly can compound on one another as you experience them.
Without treating the traumas, or incidents where you felt there was a significant risk to your safety or that of others, there can be a cumulative effect.
What we have learned in the mental health field from studying traumas, is that the body as a whole responds to these stressors in order to keep you safe during the events.
If the body does not realize that it no longer needs to respond in this way because the event is now over, and then receives a trigger from a new event, it makes sense that the new event could cause additional issues.
Both of these events can be addressed with the help of a Counsellor.
There are many Counsellors that specialize in trauma inside and outside of the VA, so shop around if you are able and find someone that you connect with.
A car accident can be a traumatic event.
Especially, if it was serious, you could have feared for your life, felt everything was out of control and had normal reactions to an abnormal situation afterwards.
This may or may not be related to the traumas that you experienced in the military.
If it is then it is possible that you will see a direct effect in triggering off PTSD symptoms.
Even if it didn't, it is possible that the complexity of the two situations will interact inside you to be a combined response.
Having already been diagnosed with PTSD, this might be a good time to reconnect with the help system you had around military experiences and explore it a little bit about the new experience.
The right exploration does not have to make things worse and can be a good source of prevention.
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can occur after any traumatic event where a real and present threat of harm or loss of life to yourself or others is present.
Yes, a car accident could increase PTSD symptoms such as hyper-vigilance, anxiety, nightmares, re-playing the event.
Depending on the severity of the accident new triggers might exist.
This is not to say that you cannot recover.
Are you currently experiencing additional trauma symptoms?
This is a great question.
PTSD can be very complex and debilitating.
It must be very difficult for you at this time.
When we feel complex emotions such as anger, frustration, and possibly low-self worth, the tendency is to try to avoid or suppress these emotions.
The more you avoid them, the more these emotions will express themselves, and at the worst times.
This may be why your PTSD symptoms are harming your relationships and your job status.
To help you get your life back, it is important to process your emotions with a counsellor that has specific training in trauma-informed interventions.
To process emotions, you start by inviting them in, observe them with compassion and without judgment.
When we observe our emotions, it starts the healing process because we separate ourselves from them.
Remember, thoughts and emotions are constructed.
You are not your thoughts, nor your emotions.
They are messengers telling you to pay attention to them.
The more we avoid the messengers, the louder they get, to the point that they are crippling you in more than one way.
I hope this helps you begin your change process.
For more information, please here is a link to a trauma post on my blog The Wisdom Room.
Please reach out for help.
And contact me with any questions.
Your feeling overwhelmed by emotion and finding it difficult to trust people.
This can be a really scary feeling.
It is a common reaction for individuals who have endured a traumatic experience.
Often, the aftermath of a trauma can leave people feeling constantly on guard, panicky, depressed, isolated, and riddled with nightmares and intrusive thoughts of the incident.
And while the signs and symptoms can feel complex and at times overwhelming, feeling better is more than possible.
Give yourself credit for the courage that it takes to reach out.
With trauma therapy, I would expect you will begin feeling better as we implement a compassionate and client-focused evidenced -based approach together.
I've helped countless people to gain positive ground over their traumatic experiences in a safe, supportive environment.
I offer a variety of evidenced based traditional therapies as well as holistic modalities to best support you on the path to healing.
We will work together as allies in your treatment.
It would be an honour to work with you.
Slowly is the rate at which you'll get back your life.
Being traumatized means not feeling safe in almost all areas of life.
Be patient with yourself as you try to regain trust that people will not harm you and will be sources of satisfaction in your life.
It is possible that the trauma in your life requires such great attention on your part to your own inner emotional safety that you are better off with a less intensive job than the one you recently lost.
Try to prioritize restoring your emotional and psychological health.
With this as the top area of your attention then you may have an easier time to accept a lesser degree of involvement in your work and relationships.
When you feel angry, try to examine if underlying the anger are feelings of stress, fear, insecurity regarding your position in relationship to the person toward whom you feel angry.
 Anger is often the surface reaction to more destabilizing emotions like fear and insecurity.
Gradually by nurturing and comforting yourself, living at a pace which is uniquely comfortable to what and how much you can handle, you'll regain your trust in both yourself and relating to others.
It is brave of you to speak out, PTSD is not a joke and it can quickly take a toll on all aspect of life.
Please, know that you are not alone and with the right help you can overcome these challenges.
Living with PTSD can be very emotionally exhausting, but you can learn ways to cope with.
ItÕs challenges and find fulfillment in your life again.
This means being proactively involved with the process, learning about the problem and positive ways to manage it can be a good start.
This can also mean seeking professional help.
It is important to address the problem both at the physiological and psychological level, this can mean using medication that is prescribed by a MD to reduce the intensity symptoms and also working with an experienced licensed professional.
Having healthy life habItÕs such as good sleep hygiene, healthy diet, staying away from self-medicating with drugs and alcohol, and exercising can help reduce the intensity of the symptoms as well.
Please, consult with a licensed professional close to you to get more information on resources you can possibly find helpful to you.
Hi there, I hear you, PTSD has a very debilitating effect on your whole life.
I know that from personal experience.
Recovering from it is possible and doable! First step is to acknowledge to yourself that your PTSD symptoms are a normal reaction to an abnormal and traumatic event.
The nightmares, the anxiety, the heightened startle response - are all typical human responses following exposure to a frightening event.
It's important that you don't blame yourself or your body for reacting this way, rather approach yourself with compassion and kindness that you would extend a friend who is hurting.
The second step is to start taking steps towards healing.
I would really encourage you to see a counsellor or therapist specializing in trauma recovery so that you have a guided, step by step support.
But if this is not an option, you can begin your healing on your own using a step-by-step approach outlined in the book, Healing Trauma, by Peter Levin.
It's a very hands-on book and even comes with a CD audio guide.
It has concrete exercises that you can do to help you eliminate dissociation, feel grounded, and decrease your anxiety response.
I have used myself and with my clients with great success! Last thing, I suggest consulting with a nutritionist or a doctor to help you boost your healing with supplements, vitamins, and minerals.
The stress from PTSD is very draining on the body, and you use up a lot of energy and resources, so at times of trauma supplements are quite necessary for recovery (Magnesium, Omega 3, Zinc, Vitamin C).
Have you tried counselling?  Having PTSD from multiple abusive sexual experiences is very overwhelming for one to handle alone.
You may need the guidance, experience and support of a professional to identify all the triggers that effect you and obtain the best coping skills that would work for you.
Talking about it stops it from being a secret.
It takes courage to have posted your question and that is the first step.
Here is an article I wrote a few years back.
.
I'm glad you're willing to keep optimistic about life improving and offering better relationships than some of the ones in which you greatly suffered.
One suggestion is to develop patience with yourself and the process of regaining your willingness to trust other people.
Sexual intimacy engages all of who we truly are.
 Being cautious as to who and how much you allow someone into your life, is natural for anyone recovering from trauma.
Allow yourself to withdraw when situations feel dangerous.
 Your sense of danger is most likely on higher alert than had you not been victimized.
Be attentive and cooperate with your own sense of readiness to engage in conversation, discussions and sex with your partner.
Explain all this to your partner so the person can develop their own patience with your recuperation process.
I encourage you to seek out and work with a therapist who specializes in treating complex trauma.
Somatic Experiencing, Brainspotting, and Internal Family Systems Therapy are all highly effective treatments for people dealing with complex trauma.
If you are interested in reading a book that is supportive and compassionate, Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score is a wonderful book that discusses treatment options in depth.
Was your gf always this way with you or did her withdrawal develop suddenly? Also, are there any other changes going on between the two of you in terms of feeling relaxed and at ease with each other, enjoying each other? ItÕs possible her physical withdrawal, due to her sensitive nature about who touches her and the meaning of touch, reflects an underlying emotional hesitation about her feelings toward you.
This can be either strong positive or negative feelings.
She may be fearful of becoming more intimately attached to you, and withdraws.
She may be actually withdrawing and expresses herself through the amount of touch she wants from others.
Best way forward as almost always in a relationship, is to have a gentle conversation to open up the tension between the two of you.
Thank you for your question.
I think it's wonderful that you are approaching this with openness and curiosity.
The reaction you are describing is extremely common in survivors of abuse.
What you said is insightful.
When you touch her "she feels as if she is being abused as a child.
From your description, I would agree that in those moments she is re-experiencing something that happened in the past as if it is happening right now.
Re-experiencing or reliving traumatic experiences is a key symptom of PTSD.
If you are seeking to better understand what is going on for her, I would highly recommend Bessel's book the Body Keeps the Score.
This book also discusses effective treatments for overcoming trauma.
Best of luck to both of you, Sarah.
Suicide is not a natural way to pass from this Earth, so many times it can be EXTREMELY tough to deal with because of the "unnatural-ness" of the event.
We may find ourselves feeling guilty that we did not see it or that we could've have done more or something to stop it, but often the fish in the fishbowl cannot see that which is closest to him.
You are currently trying to numb your feelings, those feelings as nasty as they are, are meant to be felt, those feelings help us to process the event and also help us to pass through the situation.
Your friend has a legacy, remember it, and honour that legacy everyday in some small or even grand way, perhaps committing or volunteering your time to help others in honour of your friend.
First of all, I am very sorry for your loss, and I can understand the urge to drink and smoke to try and cope.
As I'm sure you understand, alcohol and marijuana may take the edge off of the pain in the short run, but in the long run they may prevent you from being able to work through the thoughts and feelings that you have about the loss of your friend.
Grieving is a process that is unique to each individual and each relationship that may involve difficult, confusing, and even contradictory seeming thoughts and feelings and a competent therapist can help you work through this process.
It also may be useful for you to add other ways of coping, such as taking care of yourself through exercise, doing healthy activities that you love, and spending time with people that you love.
Self care is often most difficult when we need it the most.
Thank you for reaching out.
I urge you to seek some therapeutic help for this, and also to connect with others who knew your friend, because they're likely feeling the same way.
Suicide is difficult to understand, and those left behind have many mixed emotions that make their grief complicated and anguished.
Your friend either had an impulse that no one could stop, or they made a big decision that impacted everyone around them.
There are other things you can do to cope with this, and it has to do with accepting your powerlessness to stop it, not blaming yourself, forgiving your friend, and finding meaning in their life and yours.
You won't find that meaning in a bottle or a joint.
I hope you reach out soon.
Suicide is a very traumatic loss and affects survivors significantly.
Everyone deals with their grief in different ways.
One way I recommend to deal with the loss of a loved one is to write letters to them.
Some people like to keep the letters in a jar, maybe fill the jar with sand so the letters are buried.
I recommend writing the letters as often as you need to.
You will notice over time the need to write the letters will decrease and the intense feelings of loss will decrease.
I also recommend finding a survivors support group in your area.
Let me begin by offering my condolences for your loss.
I can understand how difficult this time maybe for you especially if you have several unanswered the questions due to the circumstances surrounding the death of your friend.
It's during this time, that you may experience the various stages of grief.
This includes denial, anger, bargaining, depression and finally acceptance.
In the bereavement process, there is so specific time frame or lengths of time for someone to work through each step.
ItÕs imperative to note  that one may express each stage with different levels of intensity.
Also, the five stages do not necessarily occur in any specific order.
We often move between stages before achieving a more peaceful acceptance of death.
Just note that everyone greives differently, some internalize their feelings and emotions, others express it externally, while other avoid it all together.
Coping with loss is ultimately a deeply personal and singular experience.
Sometimes we feel that no one understands what we are feeling or going through, much less comprehend our emotional state of mind .
What's important, is that you allow others to comfort you through the various stages.
My recommendation is to allow yourself to go through the emotions and feel the grief.
Avoiding or resisting may only delay the healing process.
Reaching the acceptance stage of mourning is a gift not not everyone is awarded, but seeking the help of a Grief counsellor may assist in deciphering your emotions and set you on a more positive path to achieve closer.
I'm so sorry to hear about your recent loss.
There is such a large feeling of uncertainty that befalls those of us left to sort through these emotions of such a loss, and it's never easy.
I think it's important to remember that there is no "right" or "wrong" way to deal with loss and the "best way" for you may not be the best way for someone else.
The fact that you are aware that you are smoking more marijuana and drinking more, and the fact that you can recognize that these may not be the best coping techniques, is a very good step towards giving yourself some better support at this time.
Marijuana and drinking are type of coping techniques that can numb us to our emotions, but they do not really help us to work through those emotions.
When it comes to grief, often one of the most helpful ways to move through the phases of grief is to use your social supports; talk to your friends and family, see your mutual friends and commiserate with each other on the loss and the uncertainty.
The more we talk about our feelings, the more we are okay with them being ours.
The more we express our loss, the better we become at accepting such a loss.
In talking with your supports, you may also decide ways in which you may want to remember your friend; ways you can do so on a personal level (writing a poem, planting a tree).
or ways you as a group can remember and memorialize them (a special day where you get together to share your memories, starting a charity).
We never truly "get over" our losses, but we can learn to accept the losses and what it means to us now.
But that also takes time.
First I am so sorry for your loss.
Most people go through the grieving process.
I would get a better understanding of what that process is.
Everyone has their own way of handling loss.
You are taking the first step in realizing that you are having a difficult time coping with it.
I would reach out to a therapist that has experience treatment patients with loss.
I would also recognize that drinking and smoking are both substances that will not make depression or depressive thoughts any better.
Sorry that your growing up years in the family were so unsafe and painful.
Everyone has family legacy patterns of behaviour and ways of handling emotions, handed down to them simply by living.
All of what any child observes and how they are treated within their family context, creates their foundational expectations of others.
The best way of releasing yourself form hurtful interaction patterns is by being aware of your own feelings and intuition within close relationships.
If you have a similar sense of hurt or that something is wrong, yet in a familiar way, then most likely you are in a relational pattern similar to the negative ones in your family of origin.
This realization moment is your chance to more deeply see your own original trauma and try different ways of responding to these similar key situations.
This type of work takes a lot of repeated effort because trauma is deep and childhood trauma is attached to loving ones parents.
Expect slow progress and expect more than a few tears.
If it feels overwhelming then a therapist for guidance and support would be very beneficial to the work you'd be doing within yourself.
Sending lots of good luck!
Hi New York, There's no way to keep your past from affecting your present and future, because it's a huge part of who we are.
The GOOD news is, though, that the effect doesn't have to be negative.
I'm met many people who have horrific pasts and it helps them know confidently, every day, what kind of person they want to be and what kind of world they want to live in, and it helps them make really great decisions.
You can accept your past, integrate your traumas and move forward in a very different way.
If you see negative ways in which your past affects you (and this is also common), you are wise to seek professional help.
Without knowing more, it's impossible to give you a lot of direction here.
Basically, our past creates emotional "bruises" that are touch on and triggered by present situations.
But our reactions are often about more than just the present moment.
I think you know that.
I wish you the best as you sort it out.
I can imagine how incredibly difficult this must be for you.
Having past traumatic experiences up on you without warning can be very scary and stressful.
You may be suffering from symptoms related to post-traumatic stress disorder.
Getting evaluated by a professional would be a good step to take next.
By seeking treatment and having a therapist who you trust and can connect with, you will gain the ability to think about your experiences without it significantly interfering with your daily functioning.
A therapist can also help you to develop new coping strategies to be used during recall of these experiences and help you to adopt healthy thought patterns.
I would also recommend that you seek support from loved ones.
Sometimes just talking about your experiences and associated feelings will alleviate some of the emotional troubles you are suffering from.
Lastly, you may find meditation or mindfulness work to be of great benefit.
Having the ability to live in the present moment should reduce the effects of your traumatic experiences interfering with recalling your past or looking forward to your future.
I wish you all the best!
In general, our past is always somewhat alive and does inform our present experiences.
All past experiences, both positive and negative are what have brought you where you are today, physically and emotionally.
 That being said, your father's behaviour does not have to define you or your future.
You have power over your life and your future.
By learning more about yourself, you can learn to incorporate your past into your present life, without being defined by past traumas.
The best way to grow and learn how to do this is to talk with someone about your experiences.
By talking about your past and present struggles with a trusted confidante or helping professional you will hopefully learn how to be at peace with your past.
I am so sorry to hear that you are struggling.
Getting to know yourself after a trauma (especially at the hands of a caregiver) and learning to trust yourself can feel terrifying.
I would encourage you to seek out a trauma therapist who can work with you slowly and at your pace.
You are not your trauma.
You are good and you are whole.
Please seek out the support of a therapist who sees that in you.
Without knowing much about your situation, I would encourage you to seek out either a sex therapist who is trauma-informed or a trauma therapist who has knowledge about sexual concerns.
Even consensual sex can be experienced as an intrusion if a partner was not careful or insensitive to your pain.
It would be normal to have some difficulties with sex after such an incident.
I am so sorry that this happened to you and am so glad that you were able to get away.
Your body is yours and yours alone.
I would highly recommend that you find a therapist who specializes in treating trauma in order to help you to heal from your ordeal.
Wow, I'm so sorry that this has happened to you.
My heart goes out to you.
Please find a therapist who specializes in working with PTSD.
Brainspotting, Internal Family Systems Therapy, and Somatic Experiencing are all highly effective therapies for complex interpersonal trauma.
If you are interested in reading about trauma from a compassionate and scientific perspective I highly recommend Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score.
Ending an abusive relationship is often very difficult, especially if you were very close initially without the presence of abuse.
If the abuse included verbal or psychological condemnation, you will often have a negative self-image that you may "know" is not true but often feels very true.
This negative self-image and fear of being abused again can activate protections in you that were needed at the time you were abused but now create a "wall" in your current relationship.
The fact that you were able to end the relationship and know that you made the right decision is a great acknowledgement that you have solid internal resources to draw upon in healing from the abuse.
Good for you! Nightmares and flashbacks are a strong sign of memories, including associated beliefs, emotions, and physical sensations, that have remained unprocessed and therefore unhealed.
There are likely reminders (called triggers) of the past abuse that are being activated in your current relationship that are allowing these unhealed memories to come to the surface and affect both your sleep and your waking experiences.
This is certainly not something you are purposefully doing but is the result of what happened to you.
However, you likely feel as if you are not in control.
  The goal is protect your current relationship, evaluate your self-image for flaws in beliefs and feelings, and begin working on healing your memories of abuse.
In many cases, my use of EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) would be helpful in reducing the emotional strength of your abuse memories, reduce or eliminate triggers, bring healing, and allow you to enjoy being in the present with your current relationship.
I would recommend discussing with your current partner your harmful past experiences, your decision to pursue counselling, and your strong desire to be healthy for your current relationship.
With a good support network in place, healing is very possible.
Thanks for sharing and asking for help.
You mention that you're the one who ended the relationship in the past, yet are haunted by nightmares and flashbacks.
Your comments here lead me to wonder that you may have experienced some form of trauma in this past relationship; and, if so, I would encourage you to additionally consider the whole of your story-line as it relates to trauma.
Doing so will serve you well for your own peace-of-mind especially so in your current relationship.
The best way to do all of this in a supportive fashion is to work with an experienced therapist who specializes in trauma-focused care.
The therapist may, if indicated, wish to incorporate EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) which ".
Is a psychotherapy that enables people to heal from the symptoms and emotional distress that are the result of disturbing life experiences.
Best wishes.
It sounds like you have not had the opportunity to process through the trauma you have endured.
It would help if you have the opportunity to speak with someone on a regular basis until the symptoms of your trauma have subsided.
One thing you could try to do on your own is to focus on the partner who is in front of you now.
If you are able to connect with them via touch or focusing on their tone of voice, that may help to center you.
Tried to stay grounded and/or mindful.
That is being aware of your position in the room, your feet on the floor, your hands in your lap, or your hips in the chair.
Being mindful of the environment you are currently (for example, noticing what is around you) may be helpful.
Try to use all your senses.
For example, you could focus on hearing your husband's voice, feeling his hand in yours, being wrapped in your favourite blanket, seeing a comforting photo, using a comforting sense or candle, or tasting an apple that reminds you of times when you have enjoyed yourself in the kitchen.
ItÕs also sounds like you are having a very specific reaction that could very well be related to trauma.
I would recommend that you talk with a local mental health professional.
Just because it was the best decision of your life, that doesn't mean that what happened to you or in your presence automatically leaves you when you leave the relationship.
Our brain is actually hardwired to remember things that have caused us pain or great emotional distress as a way of protecting us from them happening again.
This is a very natural response and the reactions you have as far as nightmares and flashbacks are the past coming forward and your brain trying to make sense of it all.
EMDR therapy has shown great results for work with PTSD symptoms which are similar to what you described.
If you are unable to find a local EMDR specialist then I would suggest some meditation and journaling in addition to talk therapy to process your trauma.
Your anxiety response centers in the brain are in hyper vigilance mode and retraining to turn down that response could be helpful for you.
A lot of times when you're experiencing nightmares and flashbacks, it can be a sign that you haven't fully processed what happened.
Our brains tend to replay scenes in our life that we wish had turned out differently or in an effort to desensitize us to it.
If you are comfortable with it, you may want to consider sharing what you're experiencing with your current partner so that he is able to understand what's going on.
Also, you may want to consider what parts of your past relationship you blame yourself for.
This can be a difficult task to undertake on your own, and the help of the therapist may be necessary to sort through the memories in a safe way.
Typically however, flashbacks and nightmares are a sign that the trauma of what you went through needs to be addressed.
it's a great thing that you were able to have the courage to get out of that relationship and you should be proud of yourself for that.
You may want to begin therapy to address these traumatic memories and help you to sort through any conflicting emotions you have about it (Feeling like it's your fault for not recognizing the abuse or getting out of the relationship sooner, blaming yourself for being " The kind of person who gets into an abusive relationship",  or believing that you somehow caused your ex to abuse you in some way).
These types of beliefs and feelings can prevent us from moving past traumatic experiences and a trained therapist can certainly help you sort through them.
From what you describe about yourself, I agree with you that ending your former relationship was a very wise decision.
The nightmares and flashbacks show that you were deeply affected emotionally and on the foundations of your basic nature.
The way for these to stop is by the slow process of realizing how badly injured and frightened you were of your former partner.
Once you've stabilized yourself by accepting the tremendous harshness that was part of the former relationship, then the nightmares and flashbacks will disappear gradually usually, maybe all at once.
There is a possibility too that your former relationship connected with being emotionally ignored, abandoned, treated harshly during your time of growing up years.
Since generally people choose partners who relate similarly to the ways in which they felt treated by parents, it is possible that you had been badly treated while growing up and weren't aware of this until going through this terrible relationship.
Congratulations on ending your relationship!
Your challenge is called "co-dependency.
People seek approval from others in an obsessive way when they are failing to truly accept themselves.
I encourage you to truly love yourself and know that you have every right to every sensation, emotion, thought, and inspiration that you may have.
Best of luck on your journey.
As you seemed to have learned, the impact will not just "go away".
Treatment of trauma is like surgery, it requires a skillful clinician to help resolve it.
While you are contemplating getting help, you can focus on calming techniques like meditation and yoga.
They will aid you when you begin the therapeutic process.
I'm glad you have some time when you're not thinking about your trauma when you're with your friends.
As far as feeling scared when you are alone, I'm not sure if you are referring to having flashbacks or thoughts on what happened to you or reminders in the environment around you or something else.
One thing that might help is to find a bead or a rock that is smooth that you can hold onto or rub against your hand or fingers.
Think of a time when you felt safe, comfortable, happyâ basically a positive and safe momentâ while holding onto the rock.
Then, when you have scary thoughts, you can hold on to the rock and remember the happier place.
Try to associate as many happy and safe moments with the rock as you can.
I'm not sure that I have the answer to your question, but I can tell you that it would be helpful to talk with a certified hypnotist.
You also may want to talk to someone who specializes in EMDR.
This stands for Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing and it is a specific trauma treatment.
I am not trained in this particular method, but my understanding is that it does not require a lot of knowledge of the origin of the trauma before being started.
Have you sought the support of a therapist really qualified in working through sexual trauma? It can take some work, but healing is possible.
If you feel able to, it may also help to open a dialogue with your boyfriend about what you need from him when you have these flashbacks.
Let him know what some helpful responses may be.
Sexual intimacy can be very triggering for survivors even when it is both wanted and consensual.
You may want to consider seeing a therapist who specializes in trauma to work through the abuse if you have not already done so.
Often times triggers still hold such a powerful effect when the emotions related to the abuse have not been fully processed.
In the meantime, you may want to consider coming up with a Safe Word to let your partner know that you are being triggered or to communicate your physical boundaries to him.
Often times, the experience of communicating your physical boundaries to your partner, having those boundaries respected and validated, and having a partner who is understanding and willing to engage in intimacy in such a way that does not violate your physical boundaries can reinforce a sense of safety with him.
When it comes to trauma, especially in the event that it has caused you to develop PTSD, there can be a lot of difficulty in attempting to resolve these issues on your own simply because of how strong your urge to avoid it whenever thoughts of the traumatic experience come up.
PTSD is best treated with the help of a mental health professional and if using the Cognitive Processing Approach can be treated in as few as 17 weeks.
As for your other concerns, many of these can be treated independently if you have the motivation to manage your way through.
Panic attacks and depression, specifically, often respond well to self-help treatment manuals.
The Centre for Clinical Interventions is a great online resource for workbooks to help you learn to manage the depression and panic attacks.
Whether you decide to work through these concerns on your own or in professional therapy, just know that your panic attacks must be managed prior to addressing your trauma.
Hope this is helpful and if you have any other questions don't hesitate to ask.
I will not say that you can't but I will say it will be much harder and the time may take much longer.
Getting help and having someone to be there with you through the ups and down of PTSD makes the journey much easier.
It's important to know that there are counsellors who are trained in working with survivors of trauma and you can get help.
The "blur" in your memories is your brain's attempt to protect you from the experiences in your past.
To recover them can be a slow process done by a trained professional that you trust.
When you are ready and feel safe, those memories can be recovered and can be integrated with other memories.
This will help to lessen the potency of the memory, help to make sense of what has happened, and allow you to begin the healing process.
Check into therapist who are trained in EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing).
Sorry to hear of having witnessed violence within your family when you were very young.
Your blocked memories are a self-protection from the enormous emotional pain and feeling de-stabilized by realizing that the people whom you expected to trust, are harmful.
Already you are at the first step, which is to know that memories exist about the disturbing events concerning your brother.
Probably the best way of finding your way back to those times, is by paying attention to all of who you are today.
The more intently and with loving interest you are able to notice yourself, you will be gradually dissolving the layers of protective thoughts about intimacy being unsafe.
Basically, you will be teaching yourself how to slowly trust yourself.
Since trust is what was violated while you were young, you will be developing a new model for trusting yourself and others.
Then, more of the memories of your painful and overwhelming times will make themselves available to you.
They are simply waiting for you to be strong and trusting enough within yourself, to tolerate them!
He's "supposed to be" your father.
It's tough enough being adopted (unless I'm reading it wrong, I think you're adopted); what you don't need is to be verbally abused by someone who's supposed to love and protect you.
I don't know how old you are (past teen years though), or where your mom is, but I bet there are other people in your life who treat you differently.
It's your right to spend your time with the people who love you properly.
That's a really important part of learning how to be happy.
Carefully choosing who's going to be in your life.
It's tricky to put emotional distance between you and your supposed-to-be father, but it's possible.
Physical distance (avoid him if you don't trust you'll be treated with respect), and emotional distance (feeling less connected to and affected by his relationship disability).
I think you're already doing that part because you don't blame yourself for his words, which is wonderful.
I don't know if he's evil (although I believe evil exists), but he may be incapable of loving properly, or lacking empathy, as you suggest.
A good therapist can support you in these goals.
I wish you the best in your growth as an independent adult.
Probably the more important questions to answer concern how much confidence you have in you and your boyfriend becoming parents, how you each feel about the influence of his being banned from seeing his current children, and be clear about the circumstances that led up to the decision of him not being permitted to see his kids.
Don't allow some random professional to pronounce your boyfriend as cured.
A relatively qualified therapist would never make this call.
Psychological and emotional tensions emerge from our relationships within families.
You and your boyfriend are in a position to set a strong foundation for having children, assuming each of you wants children.
Childhood issues, your boyfriend's, anyone's, are more likely to go away when new patterns of interacting emerge.
If the two of you are engaged in setting a secure relationship as future parents, the disappointments and hurt from the very early years, will be replaced by better ways of interacting.

