You already are doing that! You are reaching out.
You are accepting your past, you are not denying what happened to you, you are talking about the past.
You are already doing a great job of starting this journey.
You get your life back by doing things differently.
I would think about how you would like to process your past.
Do you want to talk to someone? Do you want to write about it? Do you want to pray about it? Do you want to read and research books about trauma? Take some time and think about what you want to do.
Think about what would work for you and dive in.
I am a Licensed Professional Counsellor, so I am biased - but I really believe that counselling works.
Having an objective, professional voice that can guide you on this process is so valuable.
But please choose what makes you feel comfortable - not what everyone else says.
I think you are very brave for reaching out and wanting to work on this.
That takes a tremendous amount of courage and strength.
I'm so sorry you had that horrible experience! It's common for those who've experienced childhood trauma(s) to not disclose the events until later in life.
Sometimes it doesn't feel safe enough to share the information until the person who hurt them is far away, or even dead.
Trusting and vulnerability are difficult, especially when we've been hurt.
So, it's not uncommon for clients to share that their desire to be close to their loved one (emotionally, physically and/or sexually) doesn't match the reality of what they are able to actually experience.
But there is hope! You have met a loving and caring man, and you have a self-awareness that you did not experience before.
I am confident that the help of a licensed professional counsellor (preferably trained in trauma recovery) can help you navigate this healing journey and help you gain the tools needed for the life you want.
Have you explained to your prospective partner about the feeling of vulnerability which you've got? Disclosing one's truth to a trusted person will improve your sense of feeling safe and loved.
It may also take off the pressure you feel to complete your own trajectory of making peace with your past burdens of life.
If you find your possible new partner is patient and understanding, then you've both removed pressure off yourself and will feel validated and loved for speaking your plain truth and finding it well accepted.
If you continue to hide your deeper complexity, or if you explain yourself and ask for the person's patience and understanding, and he avoids giving this to you, then you're better off knowing sooner than later the limit of understanding which this potential partner has.
Hi! It is a great question! The term you are looking for the inability to identify and describe emotions in the self.
However, just because you are not able to feel or express emotions, does not mean that you do not have emotions.
After such a traumatic event that you experienced, your central nervous system goes into defensive mode (dorsal vagal nerves) that protect you from any further harm.
What this means is if you were to feel your emotions related to your rape, you would have a sense of being overwhelmed, possibly re-experiencing the traumatic event.
Not feeling emotions is your body's way of protecting you from any further trauma.
Unfortunately, when the (parasympathetic) dorsal vagal system (shutting down feeling) is activated and suppresses your painful emotions (pain, shame, guilt, sadness, anger), it also shuts down your positive and relational emotions (love, joy, contentment, connectedness, happiness).
I am very sorry that you had to go through such a traumatic experience as being raped.
No one knows what is going on inside of you as a result.
You don't know what is happening to your emotional wellbeing! The best (and at times, difficult and scary) thing is to process your emotions related to your trauma.
This processing is done carefully, with a trained counsellor, in a place that you feel safe, heard, and not judged.
Although the thought of proceedings (addressing) emotions may be anxiety-inducing, it brings on a huge sense of relief and validation.
What you are going through is normal, considering what happened to you! I hope you reach out for more help.
I'm so sorry you've been hurt.
It's very normal to stop feeling emotions as a way to protect yourself after experiencing a traumatic event.
You can think of it as emotional shock-- you experienced something that was so awful that you have numbed yourself (mind and body) as a way to stop the emotional and physical pain of the event.
It's actually pretty amazing that our selves know how to do this automatically.
And, I hear you saying that you'd like to get some feeling back now.
So here are some ideas for how you can change this: I think it would be a great idea to find an experienced therapist you like and trust and/or a good support group so that you can have some allies as you go through this process.
You also could try journaling.
If you're not sure what to write then check out this list of prompts to get you started (it's for teachers, but I really like it).
There's also art journaling.
Pinterest has lots of suggestions.
Meditation could be useful.
There are lots of apps available that offer guided meditations.
Yoga, tai chi, or chi gong might also help.
I have lots of other ideas, but without knowing more about you I'm reluctant to make suggestions that could accidentally make you feel worse.
This protective mechanism of numbing yourself kicked in for a good reason and as you get your feelings back, you may find some pretty challenging reactions coming up.
I guess my final piece of advice to is encourage you to trust yourself and gently go at your own pace in your healing.
I hope this was helpful.
Terrible things do happen in life, and I am sorry to hear about what happened to you.
Please rest assured that you are not a sociopath, and that your reactions are normal responses to traumatic events.
I'm guessing you are experiencing a sense of numbness, which is a common response to trauma.
As you process your experience, you will be able to feel emotions again.
However, the first feelings to come back may be related to trauma, such as fear, panic, and a sense of hyper vigilance.
A professional counsellor will be able to help you tolerate these feelings, manage them, and heal from your trauma.
I don't need to tell you that this is an incredible amount of serious stuff to happen in a short period.
When we go through a trauma, it is natural for us to shut down as a way to protect ourselves.
A kind of freeze response.
Think of a possum or a gazelle.
These animals go so far as to physically freeze in protection.
Our emotions do the same thing sometimes.
We feel shut down and that can be strange---a kind of disconnection.
This does not mean that you are sociopath or that your feelings will never come back.
The amazing thing though is that as time moves forward we naturally heal and emotions come back.
If you feel stuck, seeking counselling is a way to help accelerate this healing and help you work through and begin healing.
Wishing you the absolute best!
IÕm sorry to know this happened to you! This is a normal response to traumatic events.
When we are pushed to the extreme and we are unable to escape, we which numbs us from pain but disconnects us from our bodies.
We oftentimes continue to feel that disconnection until we work through these traumas.
I would suggest working through your traumas with a therapist with methods like EMDR, somatic experiencing, yoga therapy, etc to get your emotions and fullness of life back!
I am so sorry this has happened to you! I hope you have some people you find emotionally supportive around you! In terms of your question, I understand what you are talking about.
Sometimes when a person experiences a traumatic event, an event called Dissociation occurs.
Dissociation is the brain's way of temporary creating and increasing  Òemotional distanceÓ between what is happening and what you are feeling and experiencing.
This is a kind of natural coping mechanism, and it can occur just prior to, during, and after an event has occurred.
People describe the feeling as being "numb," or detached from others, their surroundings, and even from their own body.
All of these descriptions are accurate and they are your brain's attempt to try and keep you safe from emotions that may otherwise overwhelm you.
This is good, in the short-term, because you are not having to immediately face and cope with the immensely painful feelings associated with your trauma.
But it is also not-so-good in that it also blocks your ability to feel positive and pleasurable emotions.
So while your brain is protecting you, it is also preventing feelings you need now more than ever (such as regaining a sense of safety, soothing your hurts, and feeling empowered for your survival).
You are not a sociopath, so do not worry about that, but I would strongly recommend that you consider seeing a therapist or other supportive mental health professional to help you work through what is happened.
There are ways for you to heal from your experience which will help you get back to a place where you can feel safe enough to "feel" again.
It might be an uncomfortable journey, at times, but you are already hurting and your life is being negatively impacted, now.
Good therapy sometimes is like pulling out a splinter--it may hurt a bit to dig that sucker out, but once it's out, your body can finally start to heal.
It might seem better (and less painful) to leave it alone, and ignore (avoid) it.
But you risk INFECTION by your inaction which will be 100 x worse than just digging it out.
Best of luck to you! .
You are describing a very legitimate reaction to trauma.
Rape is an bad experience and I am very sorry that happened to you.
When horrible things happen, people often react in a way that interferes with the ability to live a normal life and function the way they did in the past.
This is very common and the goal is to help you manage the stress caused by dealing with negative events and with help you can regain emotional well-being.
This is especially important if you have had more than one negative thing happen.
Oftentimes, the unconscious reaction is to become numb and avoid all feelings, especially if more than one negative event occurred.
A big part of what causes people trouble are feelings of guilt.
We often blame ourselves when bad things happen.
It is actually difficult to comprehend the concept that we don't always have control of what happens in life.
In addition, when you mentioned feeling like a sociopath, it sounded like you feel like your reaction is wrong.
The first thing you can do is realize that your feelings and reactions are o.
K.
, you aren't doing anything wrong, and nothing is wrong with you.
The next step is to start dealing with the impact of these traumatic experiences.
Identifying your feelings, and knowing the thoughts and beliefs that are behind those emotions can help you regain your sense of happiness.
Research shows that understanding and expressing those thoughts and feelings can help.
If doesn't sound like you need to do anything to change yourself, but talking to a counsellor can be helpful in managing your reaction to a incredibly traumatic experience.
I hope this helps you understand your feelings and can get to a place where you enjoy life.
First and foremost, be gentle and patient with yourself.
It is normal to feel a range of emotions after a severe trauma including no emotions at all.
Try not to push yourself to feel, just notice the lack of emotion you are experiencing right now.
Maybe write about your emotions and the lack of them or talk about it with a safe person.
Unfortunately recovering from trauma can take time and it's best done at your own pace.
If you aren't feeling there may be a reason you aren't feeling.
For severe trauma I always recommend working with a trained trauma professional who has the training to guide you on your path to healing fully.
Sociopaths don't know they are sociopaths.
Clearly, you realize you have pretty deep emotions and have lived through several severely distressing situations.
Your sense of self may be protecting for a while until you recover the practical aspects of daily life and feel some sense of predictability and stability in your life.
Knowing and feeling disturbing emotions which rupture basic trust that other people are safe, is ItÕs self a raw process.
Yes, it is possible to become numb emotionally.
 The good purpose is to protect you from additional hurt.
When your inner world feels ItÕs self ready, more of your emotions from the recent distressing events will be accessible.
If many months pass and you see no progress, then definitely consider a few sessions with a therapist who would be able to guide you to become more open to your feelings.
You're not a sociopath - you're traumatized.
Shutting off feelings is our brain's automatic way of protecting us when something bad happens and we just can't deal with any more pain.
It's temporary - which is both good and bad news, because after the numb goes away and your brain decides you're ready to handle it, you'll feel the emotional pain.
My advice is to get a therapist ASAP so you have a safe place and a safe person when that happens.
This is a horrible thing that happened to you, but you are not a horrible person.
With good therapy you will learn to assimilate this into the rest of your life.
You'll never forget, but you won't have the same pain about it.
Good luck! You can do this!
I am so sorry to hear about what happened to you! What you are describing is being in a state of shock.
You haven't suddenly become a sociopath - this is a normal reaction to an event that is completely overwhelming.
There are most likely too many feelings to feel right now.
ItÕs wisdom to shutting them down.
You absolutely can recover, and it would be really important to get some trauma counselling with a counsellor who feels safe for you to talk with.
This is not the kind of situation to try and handle totally on your own.
You are right on to recognize that the effects of trauma can be cumulative.
It is very possible that a car accident could lead to an increase in PTSD symptoms that were related to other traumatic experiences.
A car accident can be scary and possibly trigger your symptoms of PTSD.
It is good that you recognize the possibility of this occurring.
Not everyone who experiences a car accident develops PTSD.
The chances are definitely increased due to your prior diagnosis during military service.
You're more likely to scan your environment for potential sources of threats.
4.
Avoidance.
Because of the anxiety that often follows an accident, it's natural that you may want to avoid some situations or experience hesitation at times.
If you experience any of these symptoms or feel other symptoms of PTSD it would be advisable to seek help possibly through your local VA Medical Clinic or a private practitioner.
There are certain modalities such as EMDR that can help with your symptoms.
There are many types of traumas, and they certainly can compound on one another as you experience them.
Without treating the traumas, or incidents where you felt there was a significant risk to your safety or that of others, there can be a cumulative effect.
What we have learned in the mental health field from studying traumas, is that the body as a whole responds to these stressors in order to keep you safe during the events.
If the body does not realize that it no longer needs to respond in this way because the event is now over, and then receives a trigger from a new event, it makes sense that the new event could cause additional issues.
Both of these events can be addressed with the help of a Counsellor.
There are many Counsellors that specialize in trauma inside and outside of the VA, so shop around if you are able and find someone that you connect with.
A car accident can be a traumatic event.
Especially, if it was serious, you could have feared for your life, felt everything was out of control and had normal reactions to an abnormal situation afterwards.
This may or may not be related to the traumas that you experienced in the military.
If it is then it is possible that you will see a direct effect in triggering off PTSD symptoms.
Even if it didn't, it is possible that the complexity of the two situations will interact inside you to be a combined response.
Having already been diagnosed with PTSD, this might be a good time to reconnect with the help system you had around military experiences and explore it a little bit about the new experience.
The right exploration does not have to make things worse and can be a good source of prevention.
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can occur after any traumatic event where a real and present threat of harm or loss of life to yourself or others is present.
Yes, a car accident could increase PTSD symptoms such as hyper-vigilance, anxiety, nightmares, re-playing the event.
Depending on the severity of the accident new triggers might exist.
This is not to say that you cannot recover.
Are you currently experiencing additional trauma symptoms?
This is a great question.
PTSD can be very complex and debilitating.
It must be very difficult for you at this time.
When we feel complex emotions such as anger, frustration, and possibly low-self worth, the tendency is to try to avoid or suppress these emotions.
The more you avoid them, the more these emotions will express themselves, and at the worst times.
This may be why your PTSD symptoms are harming your relationships and your job status.
To help you get your life back, it is important to process your emotions with a counsellor that has specific training in trauma-informed interventions.
To process emotions, you start by inviting them in, observe them with compassion and without judgment.
When we observe our emotions, it starts the healing process because we separate ourselves from them.
Remember, thoughts and emotions are constructed.
You are not your thoughts, nor your emotions.
They are messengers telling you to pay attention to them.
The more we avoid the messengers, the louder they get, to the point that they are crippling you in more than one way.
I hope this helps you begin your change process.
For more information, please here is a link to a trauma post on my blog The Wisdom Room.
Please reach out for help.
And contact me with any questions.
Your feeling overwhelmed by emotion and finding it difficult to trust people.
This can be a really scary feeling.
It is a common reaction for individuals who have endured a traumatic experience.
Often, the aftermath of a trauma can leave people feeling constantly on guard, panicky, depressed, isolated, and riddled with nightmares and intrusive thoughts of the incident.
And while the signs and symptoms can feel complex and at times overwhelming, feeling better is more than possible.
Give yourself credit for the courage that it takes to reach out.
With trauma therapy, I would expect you will begin feeling better as we implement a compassionate and client-focused evidenced -based approach together.
I've helped countless people to gain positive ground over their traumatic experiences in a safe, supportive environment.
I offer a variety of evidenced based traditional therapies as well as holistic modalities to best support you on the path to healing.
We will work together as allies in your treatment.
It would be an honour to work with you.
Slowly is the rate at which you'll get back your life.
Being traumatized means not feeling safe in almost all areas of life.
Be patient with yourself as you try to regain trust that people will not harm you and will be sources of satisfaction in your life.
It is possible that the trauma in your life requires such great attention on your part to your own inner emotional safety that you are better off with a less intensive job than the one you recently lost.
Try to prioritize restoring your emotional and psychological health.
With this as the top area of your attention then you may have an easier time to accept a lesser degree of involvement in your work and relationships.
When you feel angry, try to examine if underlying the anger are feelings of stress, fear, insecurity regarding your position in relationship to the person toward whom you feel angry.
 Anger is often the surface reaction to more destabilizing emotions like fear and insecurity.
Gradually by nurturing and comforting yourself, living at a pace which is uniquely comfortable to what and how much you can handle, you'll regain your trust in both yourself and relating to others.
It is brave of you to speak out, PTSD is not a joke and it can quickly take a toll on all aspect of life.
Please, know that you are not alone and with the right help you can overcome these challenges.
Living with PTSD can be very emotionally exhausting, but you can learn ways to cope with.
ItÕs challenges and find fulfillment in your life again.
This means being proactively involved with the process, learning about the problem and positive ways to manage it can be a good start.
This can also mean seeking professional help.
It is important to address the problem both at the physiological and psychological level, this can mean using medication that is prescribed by a MD to reduce the intensity symptoms and also working with an experienced licensed professional.
Having healthy life habItÕs such as good sleep hygiene, healthy diet, staying away from self-medicating with drugs and alcohol, and exercising can help reduce the intensity of the symptoms as well.
Please, consult with a licensed professional close to you to get more information on resources you can possibly find helpful to you.
Hi there, I hear you, PTSD has a very debilitating effect on your whole life.
I know that from personal experience.
Recovering from it is possible and doable! First step is to acknowledge to yourself that your PTSD symptoms are a normal reaction to an abnormal and traumatic event.
The nightmares, the anxiety, the heightened startle response - are all typical human responses following exposure to a frightening event.
It's important that you don't blame yourself or your body for reacting this way, rather approach yourself with compassion and kindness that you would extend a friend who is hurting.
The second step is to start taking steps towards healing.
I would really encourage you to see a counsellor or therapist specializing in trauma recovery so that you have a guided, step by step support.
But if this is not an option, you can begin your healing on your own using a step-by-step approach outlined in the book, Healing Trauma, by Peter Levin.
It's a very hands-on book and even comes with a CD audio guide.
It has concrete exercises that you can do to help you eliminate dissociation, feel grounded, and decrease your anxiety response.
I have used myself and with my clients with great success! Last thing, I suggest consulting with a nutritionist or a doctor to help you boost your healing with supplements, vitamins, and minerals.
The stress from PTSD is very draining on the body, and you use up a lot of energy and resources, so at times of trauma supplements are quite necessary for recovery (Magnesium, Omega 3, Zinc, Vitamin C).
Have you tried counselling?  Having PTSD from multiple abusive sexual experiences is very overwhelming for one to handle alone.
You may need the guidance, experience and support of a professional to identify all the triggers that effect you and obtain the best coping skills that would work for you.
Talking about it stops it from being a secret.
It takes courage to have posted your question and that is the first step.
Here is an article I wrote a few years back.
.
I'm glad you're willing to keep optimistic about life improving and offering better relationships than some of the ones in which you greatly suffered.
One suggestion is to develop patience with yourself and the process of regaining your willingness to trust other people.
Sexual intimacy engages all of who we truly are.
 Being cautious as to who and how much you allow someone into your life, is natural for anyone recovering from trauma.
Allow yourself to withdraw when situations feel dangerous.
 Your sense of danger is most likely on higher alert than had you not been victimized.
Be attentive and cooperate with your own sense of readiness to engage in conversation, discussions and sex with your partner.
Explain all this to your partner so the person can develop their own patience with your recuperation process.
I encourage you to seek out and work with a therapist who specializes in treating complex trauma.
Somatic Experiencing, Brainspotting, and Internal Family Systems Therapy are all highly effective treatments for people dealing with complex trauma.
If you are interested in reading a book that is supportive and compassionate, Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score is a wonderful book that discusses treatment options in depth.
Was your gf always this way with you or did her withdrawal develop suddenly? Also, are there any other changes going on between the two of you in terms of feeling relaxed and at ease with each other, enjoying each other? ItÕs possible her physical withdrawal, due to her sensitive nature about who touches her and the meaning of touch, reflects an underlying emotional hesitation about her feelings toward you.
This can be either strong positive or negative feelings.
She may be fearful of becoming more intimately attached to you, and withdraws.
She may be actually withdrawing and expresses herself through the amount of touch she wants from others.
Best way forward as almost always in a relationship, is to have a gentle conversation to open up the tension between the two of you.
Thank you for your question.
I think it's wonderful that you are approaching this with openness and curiosity.
The reaction you are describing is extremely common in survivors of abuse.
What you said is insightful.
When you touch her "she feels as if she is being abused as a child.
From your description, I would agree that in those moments she is re-experiencing something that happened in the past as if it is happening right now.
Re-experiencing or reliving traumatic experiences is a key symptom of PTSD.
If you are seeking to better understand what is going on for her, I would highly recommend Bessel's book the Body Keeps the Score.
This book also discusses effective treatments for overcoming trauma.
Best of luck to both of you, Sarah.
Suicide is not a natural way to pass from this Earth, so many times it can be EXTREMELY tough to deal with because of the "unnatural-ness" of the event.
We may find ourselves feeling guilty that we did not see it or that we could've have done more or something to stop it, but often the fish in the fishbowl cannot see that which is closest to him.
You are currently trying to numb your feelings, those feelings as nasty as they are, are meant to be felt, those feelings help us to process the event and also help us to pass through the situation.
Your friend has a legacy, remember it, and honour that legacy everyday in some small or even grand way, perhaps committing or volunteering your time to help others in honour of your friend.
First of all, I am very sorry for your loss, and I can understand the urge to drink and smoke to try and cope.
As I'm sure you understand, alcohol and marijuana may take the edge off of the pain in the short run, but in the long run they may prevent you from being able to work through the thoughts and feelings that you have about the loss of your friend.
Grieving is a process that is unique to each individual and each relationship that may involve difficult, confusing, and even contradictory seeming thoughts and feelings and a competent therapist can help you work through this process.
It also may be useful for you to add other ways of coping, such as taking care of yourself through exercise, doing healthy activities that you love, and spending time with people that you love.
Self care is often most difficult when we need it the most.
Thank you for reaching out.
I urge you to seek some therapeutic help for this, and also to connect with others who knew your friend, because they're likely feeling the same way.
Suicide is difficult to understand, and those left behind have many mixed emotions that make their grief complicated and anguished.
Your friend either had an impulse that no one could stop, or they made a big decision that impacted everyone around them.
There are other things you can do to cope with this, and it has to do with accepting your powerlessness to stop it, not blaming yourself, forgiving your friend, and finding meaning in their life and yours.
You won't find that meaning in a bottle or a joint.
I hope you reach out soon.
Suicide is a very traumatic loss and affects survivors significantly.
Everyone deals with their grief in different ways.
One way I recommend to deal with the loss of a loved one is to write letters to them.
Some people like to keep the letters in a jar, maybe fill the jar with sand so the letters are buried.
I recommend writing the letters as often as you need to.
You will notice over time the need to write the letters will decrease and the intense feelings of loss will decrease.
I also recommend finding a survivors support group in your area.
Let me begin by offering my condolences for your loss.
I can understand how difficult this time maybe for you especially if you have several unanswered the questions due to the circumstances surrounding the death of your friend.
It's during this time, that you may experience the various stages of grief.
This includes denial, anger, bargaining, depression and finally acceptance.
In the bereavement process, there is so specific time frame or lengths of time for someone to work through each step.
ItÕs imperative to note  that one may express each stage with different levels of intensity.
Also, the five stages do not necessarily occur in any specific order.
We often move between stages before achieving a more peaceful acceptance of death.
Just note that everyone greives differently, some internalize their feelings and emotions, others express it externally, while other avoid it all together.
Coping with loss is ultimately a deeply personal and singular experience.
Sometimes we feel that no one understands what we are feeling or going through, much less comprehend our emotional state of mind .
What's important, is that you allow others to comfort you through the various stages.
My recommendation is to allow yourself to go through the emotions and feel the grief.
Avoiding or resisting may only delay the healing process.
Reaching the acceptance stage of mourning is a gift not not everyone is awarded, but seeking the help of a Grief counsellor may assist in deciphering your emotions and set you on a more positive path to achieve closer.
I'm so sorry to hear about your recent loss.
There is such a large feeling of uncertainty that befalls those of us left to sort through these emotions of such a loss, and it's never easy.
I think it's important to remember that there is no "right" or "wrong" way to deal with loss and the "best way" for you may not be the best way for someone else.
The fact that you are aware that you are smoking more marijuana and drinking more, and the fact that you can recognize that these may not be the best coping techniques, is a very good step towards giving yourself some better support at this time.
Marijuana and drinking are type of coping techniques that can numb us to our emotions, but they do not really help us to work through those emotions.
When it comes to grief, often one of the most helpful ways to move through the phases of grief is to use your social supports; talk to your friends and family, see your mutual friends and commiserate with each other on the loss and the uncertainty.
The more we talk about our feelings, the more we are okay with them being ours.
The more we express our loss, the better we become at accepting such a loss.
In talking with your supports, you may also decide ways in which you may want to remember your friend; ways you can do so on a personal level (writing a poem, planting a tree).
or ways you as a group can remember and memorialize them (a special day where you get together to share your memories, starting a charity).
We never truly "get over" our losses, but we can learn to accept the losses and what it means to us now.
But that also takes time.
First I am so sorry for your loss.
Most people go through the grieving process.
I would get a better understanding of what that process is.
Everyone has their own way of handling loss.
You are taking the first step in realizing that you are having a difficult time coping with it.
I would reach out to a therapist that has experience treatment patients with loss.
I would also recognize that drinking and smoking are both substances that will not make depression or depressive thoughts any better.
Sorry that your growing up years in the family were so unsafe and painful.
Everyone has family legacy patterns of behaviour and ways of handling emotions, handed down to them simply by living.
All of what any child observes and how they are treated within their family context, creates their foundational expectations of others.
The best way of releasing yourself form hurtful interaction patterns is by being aware of your own feelings and intuition within close relationships.
If you have a similar sense of hurt or that something is wrong, yet in a familiar way, then most likely you are in a relational pattern similar to the negative ones in your family of origin.
This realization moment is your chance to more deeply see your own original trauma and try different ways of responding to these similar key situations.
This type of work takes a lot of repeated effort because trauma is deep and childhood trauma is attached to loving ones parents.
Expect slow progress and expect more than a few tears.
If it feels overwhelming then a therapist for guidance and support would be very beneficial to the work you'd be doing within yourself.
Sending lots of good luck!
Hi New York, There's no way to keep your past from affecting your present and future, because it's a huge part of who we are.
The GOOD news is, though, that the effect doesn't have to be negative.
I'm met many people who have horrific pasts and it helps them know confidently, every day, what kind of person they want to be and what kind of world they want to live in, and it helps them make really great decisions.
You can accept your past, integrate your traumas and move forward in a very different way.
If you see negative ways in which your past affects you (and this is also common), you are wise to seek professional help.
Without knowing more, it's impossible to give you a lot of direction here.
Basically, our past creates emotional "bruises" that are touch on and triggered by present situations.
But our reactions are often about more than just the present moment.
I think you know that.
I wish you the best as you sort it out.
I can imagine how incredibly difficult this must be for you.
Having past traumatic experiences up on you without warning can be very scary and stressful.
You may be suffering from symptoms related to post-traumatic stress disorder.
Getting evaluated by a professional would be a good step to take next.
By seeking treatment and having a therapist who you trust and can connect with, you will gain the ability to think about your experiences without it significantly interfering with your daily functioning.
A therapist can also help you to develop new coping strategies to be used during recall of these experiences and help you to adopt healthy thought patterns.
I would also recommend that you seek support from loved ones.
Sometimes just talking about your experiences and associated feelings will alleviate some of the emotional troubles you are suffering from.
Lastly, you may find meditation or mindfulness work to be of great benefit.
Having the ability to live in the present moment should reduce the effects of your traumatic experiences interfering with recalling your past or looking forward to your future.
I wish you all the best!
In general, our past is always somewhat alive and does inform our present experiences.
All past experiences, both positive and negative are what have brought you where you are today, physically and emotionally.
 That being said, your father's behaviour does not have to define you or your future.
You have power over your life and your future.
By learning more about yourself, you can learn to incorporate your past into your present life, without being defined by past traumas.
The best way to grow and learn how to do this is to talk with someone about your experiences.
By talking about your past and present struggles with a trusted confidante or helping professional you will hopefully learn how to be at peace with your past.
I am so sorry to hear that you are struggling.
Getting to know yourself after a trauma (especially at the hands of a caregiver) and learning to trust yourself can feel terrifying.
I would encourage you to seek out a trauma therapist who can work with you slowly and at your pace.
You are not your trauma.
You are good and you are whole.
Please seek out the support of a therapist who sees that in you.
Without knowing much about your situation, I would encourage you to seek out either a sex therapist who is trauma-informed or a trauma therapist who has knowledge about sexual concerns.
Even consensual sex can be experienced as an intrusion if a partner was not careful or insensitive to your pain.
It would be normal to have some difficulties with sex after such an incident.
I am so sorry that this happened to you and am so glad that you were able to get away.
Your body is yours and yours alone.
I would highly recommend that you find a therapist who specializes in treating trauma in order to help you to heal from your ordeal.
Wow, I'm so sorry that this has happened to you.
My heart goes out to you.
Please find a therapist who specializes in working with PTSD.
Brainspotting, Internal Family Systems Therapy, and Somatic Experiencing are all highly effective therapies for complex interpersonal trauma.
If you are interested in reading about trauma from a compassionate and scientific perspective I highly recommend Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score.
Ending an abusive relationship is often very difficult, especially if you were very close initially without the presence of abuse.
If the abuse included verbal or psychological condemnation, you will often have a negative self-image that you may "know" is not true but often feels very true.
This negative self-image and fear of being abused again can activate protections in you that were needed at the time you were abused but now create a "wall" in your current relationship.
The fact that you were able to end the relationship and know that you made the right decision is a great acknowledgement that you have solid internal resources to draw upon in healing from the abuse.
Good for you! Nightmares and flashbacks are a strong sign of memories, including associated beliefs, emotions, and physical sensations, that have remained unprocessed and therefore unhealed.
There are likely reminders (called triggers) of the past abuse that are being activated in your current relationship that are allowing these unhealed memories to come to the surface and affect both your sleep and your waking experiences.
This is certainly not something you are purposefully doing but is the result of what happened to you.
However, you likely feel as if you are not in control.
  The goal is protect your current relationship, evaluate your self-image for flaws in beliefs and feelings, and begin working on healing your memories of abuse.
In many cases, my use of EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) would be helpful in reducing the emotional strength of your abuse memories, reduce or eliminate triggers, bring healing, and allow you to enjoy being in the present with your current relationship.
I would recommend discussing with your current partner your harmful past experiences, your decision to pursue counselling, and your strong desire to be healthy for your current relationship.
With a good support network in place, healing is very possible.
Thanks for sharing and asking for help.
You mention that you're the one who ended the relationship in the past, yet are haunted by nightmares and flashbacks.
Your comments here lead me to wonder that you may have experienced some form of trauma in this past relationship; and, if so, I would encourage you to additionally consider the whole of your story-line as it relates to trauma.
Doing so will serve you well for your own peace-of-mind especially so in your current relationship.
The best way to do all of this in a supportive fashion is to work with an experienced therapist who specializes in trauma-focused care.
The therapist may, if indicated, wish to incorporate EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) which ".
Is a psychotherapy that enables people to heal from the symptoms and emotional distress that are the result of disturbing life experiences.
Best wishes.
It sounds like you have not had the opportunity to process through the trauma you have endured.
It would help if you have the opportunity to speak with someone on a regular basis until the symptoms of your trauma have subsided.
One thing you could try to do on your own is to focus on the partner who is in front of you now.
If you are able to connect with them via touch or focusing on their tone of voice, that may help to center you.
Tried to stay grounded and/or mindful.
That is being aware of your position in the room, your feet on the floor, your hands in your lap, or your hips in the chair.
Being mindful of the environment you are currently (for example, noticing what is around you) may be helpful.
Try to use all your senses.
For example, you could focus on hearing your husband's voice, feeling his hand in yours, being wrapped in your favourite blanket, seeing a comforting photo, using a comforting sense or candle, or tasting an apple that reminds you of times when you have enjoyed yourself in the kitchen.
ItÕs also sounds like you are having a very specific reaction that could very well be related to trauma.
I would recommend that you talk with a local mental health professional.
Just because it was the best decision of your life, that doesn't mean that what happened to you or in your presence automatically leaves you when you leave the relationship.
Our brain is actually hardwired to remember things that have caused us pain or great emotional distress as a way of protecting us from them happening again.
This is a very natural response and the reactions you have as far as nightmares and flashbacks are the past coming forward and your brain trying to make sense of it all.
EMDR therapy has shown great results for work with PTSD symptoms which are similar to what you described.
If you are unable to find a local EMDR specialist then I would suggest some meditation and journaling in addition to talk therapy to process your trauma.
Your anxiety response centers in the brain are in hyper vigilance mode and retraining to turn down that response could be helpful for you.
A lot of times when you're experiencing nightmares and flashbacks, it can be a sign that you haven't fully processed what happened.
Our brains tend to replay scenes in our life that we wish had turned out differently or in an effort to desensitize us to it.
If you are comfortable with it, you may want to consider sharing what you're experiencing with your current partner so that he is able to understand what's going on.
Also, you may want to consider what parts of your past relationship you blame yourself for.
This can be a difficult task to undertake on your own, and the help of the therapist may be necessary to sort through the memories in a safe way.
Typically however, flashbacks and nightmares are a sign that the trauma of what you went through needs to be addressed.
it's a great thing that you were able to have the courage to get out of that relationship and you should be proud of yourself for that.
You may want to begin therapy to address these traumatic memories and help you to sort through any conflicting emotions you have about it (Feeling like it's your fault for not recognizing the abuse or getting out of the relationship sooner, blaming yourself for being " The kind of person who gets into an abusive relationship",  or believing that you somehow caused your ex to abuse you in some way).
These types of beliefs and feelings can prevent us from moving past traumatic experiences and a trained therapist can certainly help you sort through them.
From what you describe about yourself, I agree with you that ending your former relationship was a very wise decision.
The nightmares and flashbacks show that you were deeply affected emotionally and on the foundations of your basic nature.
The way for these to stop is by the slow process of realizing how badly injured and frightened you were of your former partner.
Once you've stabilized yourself by accepting the tremendous harshness that was part of the former relationship, then the nightmares and flashbacks will disappear gradually usually, maybe all at once.
There is a possibility too that your former relationship connected with being emotionally ignored, abandoned, treated harshly during your time of growing up years.
Since generally people choose partners who relate similarly to the ways in which they felt treated by parents, it is possible that you had been badly treated while growing up and weren't aware of this until going through this terrible relationship.
Congratulations on ending your relationship!
Your challenge is called "co-dependency.
People seek approval from others in an obsessive way when they are failing to truly accept themselves.
I encourage you to truly love yourself and know that you have every right to every sensation, emotion, thought, and inspiration that you may have.
Best of luck on your journey.
As you seemed to have learned, the impact will not just "go away".
Treatment of trauma is like surgery, it requires a skillful clinician to help resolve it.
While you are contemplating getting help, you can focus on calming techniques like meditation and yoga.
They will aid you when you begin the therapeutic process.
I'm glad you have some time when you're not thinking about your trauma when you're with your friends.
As far as feeling scared when you are alone, I'm not sure if you are referring to having flashbacks or thoughts on what happened to you or reminders in the environment around you or something else.
One thing that might help is to find a bead or a rock that is smooth that you can hold onto or rub against your hand or fingers.
Think of a time when you felt safe, comfortable, happyâ basically a positive and safe momentâ while holding onto the rock.
Then, when you have scary thoughts, you can hold on to the rock and remember the happier place.
Try to associate as many happy and safe moments with the rock as you can.
I'm not sure that I have the answer to your question, but I can tell you that it would be helpful to talk with a certified hypnotist.
You also may want to talk to someone who specializes in EMDR.
This stands for Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing and it is a specific trauma treatment.
I am not trained in this particular method, but my understanding is that it does not require a lot of knowledge of the origin of the trauma before being started.
Have you sought the support of a therapist really qualified in working through sexual trauma? It can take some work, but healing is possible.
If you feel able to, it may also help to open a dialogue with your boyfriend about what you need from him when you have these flashbacks.
Let him know what some helpful responses may be.
Sexual intimacy can be very triggering for survivors even when it is both wanted and consensual.
You may want to consider seeing a therapist who specializes in trauma to work through the abuse if you have not already done so.
Often times triggers still hold such a powerful effect when the emotions related to the abuse have not been fully processed.
In the meantime, you may want to consider coming up with a Safe Word to let your partner know that you are being triggered or to communicate your physical boundaries to him.
Often times, the experience of communicating your physical boundaries to your partner, having those boundaries respected and validated, and having a partner who is understanding and willing to engage in intimacy in such a way that does not violate your physical boundaries can reinforce a sense of safety with him.
When it comes to trauma, especially in the event that it has caused you to develop PTSD, there can be a lot of difficulty in attempting to resolve these issues on your own simply because of how strong your urge to avoid it whenever thoughts of the traumatic experience come up.
PTSD is best treated with the help of a mental health professional and if using the Cognitive Processing Approach can be treated in as few as 17 weeks.
As for your other concerns, many of these can be treated independently if you have the motivation to manage your way through.
Panic attacks and depression, specifically, often respond well to self-help treatment manuals.
The Centre for Clinical Interventions is a great online resource for workbooks to help you learn to manage the depression and panic attacks.
Whether you decide to work through these concerns on your own or in professional therapy, just know that your panic attacks must be managed prior to addressing your trauma.
Hope this is helpful and if you have any other questions don't hesitate to ask.
I will not say that you can't but I will say it will be much harder and the time may take much longer.
Getting help and having someone to be there with you through the ups and down of PTSD makes the journey much easier.
It's important to know that there are counsellors who are trained in working with survivors of trauma and you can get help.
The "blur" in your memories is your brain's attempt to protect you from the experiences in your past.
To recover them can be a slow process done by a trained professional that you trust.
When you are ready and feel safe, those memories can be recovered and can be integrated with other memories.
This will help to lessen the potency of the memory, help to make sense of what has happened, and allow you to begin the healing process.
Check into therapist who are trained in EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing).
Sorry to hear of having witnessed violence within your family when you were very young.
Your blocked memories are a self-protection from the enormous emotional pain and feeling de-stabilized by realizing that the people whom you expected to trust, are harmful.
Already you are at the first step, which is to know that memories exist about the disturbing events concerning your brother.
Probably the best way of finding your way back to those times, is by paying attention to all of who you are today.
The more intently and with loving interest you are able to notice yourself, you will be gradually dissolving the layers of protective thoughts about intimacy being unsafe.
Basically, you will be teaching yourself how to slowly trust yourself.
Since trust is what was violated while you were young, you will be developing a new model for trusting yourself and others.
Then, more of the memories of your painful and overwhelming times will make themselves available to you.
They are simply waiting for you to be strong and trusting enough within yourself, to tolerate them!
He's "supposed to be" your father.
It's tough enough being adopted (unless I'm reading it wrong, I think you're adopted); what you don't need is to be verbally abused by someone who's supposed to love and protect you.
I don't know how old you are (past teen years though), or where your mom is, but I bet there are other people in your life who treat you differently.
It's your right to spend your time with the people who love you properly.
That's a really important part of learning how to be happy.
Carefully choosing who's going to be in your life.
It's tricky to put emotional distance between you and your supposed-to-be father, but it's possible.
Physical distance (avoid him if you don't trust you'll be treated with respect), and emotional distance (feeling less connected to and affected by his relationship disability).
I think you're already doing that part because you don't blame yourself for his words, which is wonderful.
I don't know if he's evil (although I believe evil exists), but he may be incapable of loving properly, or lacking empathy, as you suggest.
A good therapist can support you in these goals.
I wish you the best in your growth as an independent adult.
Probably the more important questions to answer concern how much confidence you have in you and your boyfriend becoming parents, how you each feel about the influence of his being banned from seeing his current children, and be clear about the circumstances that led up to the decision of him not being permitted to see his kids.
Don't allow some random professional to pronounce your boyfriend as cured.
A relatively qualified therapist would never make this call.
Psychological and emotional tensions emerge from our relationships within families.
You and your boyfriend are in a position to set a strong foundation for having children, assuming each of you wants children.
Childhood issues, your boyfriend's, anyone's, are more likely to go away when new patterns of interacting emerge.
If the two of you are engaged in setting a secure relationship as future parents, the disappointments and hurt from the very early years, will be replaced by better ways of interacting.
