What you are experiencing is totally normal and these emotions mean you are human! Humans are social creatures who were created to be in connection with others, but sometimes our life experiences or genetics can make that more difficult for some of us.
It is possible that these reactions are based on negative reactions you have had with others in the past, maybe your family, or other traumatic interactions with others.
It is also possible that they are caused by an underlying condition such as anxiety or depression, which may cause you to be more uncomfortable around others or annoyed by others.
Some people are also more bothered by crowded spaces, loud interactions, and the actions of others.
Of course you prefer animals, they provide unconditional love and support, do not judge you, and do not require you to have conversations with them.
The fact that you have conversations in your head at night tells me that although you say you do not like people, you are craving some social connection.
What is probably the case is that you were never really taught how to interact and have those conversations.
The good news is that there is nothing wrong with you, you just need a little help learning how to have these conversations and taking some healthy risks to initiate conversations and that is something that I help many of my clients with in therapy.
So amazing that you are aware of your social anxiety and distress with others you are in relationships with.
You have taken the first step toward a journey of healing! Secondly, make an appointment with a therapist who specializes in neurofeedback and biofeedback treatment.
Then it will be focused treatment which will speed your healing.
You might be surprised how normal you are.
Anxiety is incredibly common and while your particular type of existential anxiety might be unique to you - it is very difficult for most people to really comprehend what happens after we die - regardless of the religious or philosophical belief systems we hold.
It is the ultimate unknown and some philosophers and psychologists believe that at the root of our day-to-day anxieties is the fear of death or fear of the unknown.
Just as it can be really hard to comprehend the ending of life it can also be hard to comprehend an eternal existence.
What these both have in common is that we are imaging a future that is ultimately unknowable and this unknown can provoke a lot of anxiety.
Mindfulness based practices like meditation - maybe there is something like this in your religious tradition - can be very helpful in making peace with the unknown in the present moment.
The more we can learn to live in the moment - the less we get hung up on anticipating outcomes for our lives that may never come true.
Mindfulness practices can help you ground, be where you are , relax and regulate your nervous system so that you are able sleep and recuperate, and train your attention to focus on living the life you want to live now - rather than worrying about what happens after you die.
Having said all that - it can be profoundly helpful to speak with someone about your anxiety - especially when you feel haunted by it, worry that you are crazy and can't get to sleep.
There are lots of good therapists out there who can help you with your anxiety.
You are a unique individual exhibiting some of the traits of a specific type of temperament.
Through temperament counseling you can come to know, accept, and manage your God-given temperament to become all that God intended.
There is nothing wrong with you -- God loves you as you are and wants to help you balance your temperament needs.
The thing I picked up immediately in what you're asking is how you don't like other people because "they make me nervous and scared.
If someone said that to me in a therapy session, I'd want to understand this much more with them, and what this "nervous and scared" experience is all about: perhaps starting with the question, "what's the earliest memory you have of feeling uncomfortable around people.
The idea would be to try to understand all of what it means for you to be around people, and the history of the experience, without labeling it wrong or passing judgment on it.
From there what might come is that certain people, and their character traits, might be harder to be around for you because of experiences that you've had with similar situations in your life.
Or, it could certainly be something completely different.
It would be most important to understand it much more deeply considering the amount of distress it causes you, and in doing so we could begin to see it as "normal for me.
I think you have a lot of insight into what are going on - being able to pinpoint the issue you are facing and describe the responses it evokes.
It sounds like you may be dealing with social anxiety and it may be beneficial to talk to a professional counselor about this.
A therapist can help you develop tools (or coping strategies) for dealing with these situations.
From what you are shared, you might benefit from animal assisted therapy.
Equine therapy is a great approach, or even just working with a therapist who uses animal assisted therapy integrated with a traditional approach to counseling.
It's totally normal to feel overwhelmed and uncomfortable in large crowds, or large family gatherings.
You may worry about not fitting in, or having anything to say.
It is important to have a friend or two.
Try to find someone with similar interests.
Maybe you can do things that don't involve a lot of face to face contact, like going to see a movie, play or sporting event.
Many people are perfectly happy doing things in small groups.
If you have ongoing conversations in your head, it is usually due to worry about being judged, and wanting to do or say the exact right thing, as mentioned above.
Finding someone to talk to, either a supportive friend or therapist, would allow you to get some of those thoughts our of your head, and realize that you are more accepted than you think.
Good luck!
Since you're aware of your sensitivity to being among large groups of people, then continue to satisfy this and stay away from crowds as much as reasonably possible.
It is also fine to prefer the companionship of animals, as long as it is not to the exclusion of relationships with people.
Recognizing this feature about yourself is another example of self-understanding.
The only point to consider is the reason you avoid talking with other people.
If its because of bad or stressful encounters, betrayals or some type of violation, then having this relationship pattern remain in your mind, may introduce new problems such as loneliness from lack of close friends.
What you should do is honestly understand whether you avoid people from fear of being hurt or exploited in some way or because you genuinely prefer solitude.
If you have the right combination of people/solitude/animals, then great!If not, then consider the confidential office of a therapist for new understanding of yourself and your social interests.
You need to find an outlet.
Someone to talk to.
Your dad or someone who loves your mother as well is someone ideal.
But anyone could help.
Just look to someone for help.
If you can't find anyone who you think will listen, talk to your mom.
It can help greatly just to get the words out.
Tell her how you feel about her passing, but then also about everything else.
Talk to her about your day.
Tell her about happy things.
I don't know if you're a religious person, or where you believe she is now, but no matter what you can talk to her.
Though I don't know for sure, it sounds like anxiety to me.
I think it would be helpful if you work with a therapist who specializes in anxiety disorders.
Your, sitting in your car for 30 minutes, story sounds so sad and frustrating.
Yes, you're describing classic symptoms of anxiety.
Anxiety itself is the indirect result of repeatedly being in positions of feeling helpless or frightened.
Are you able to recall from your growing up years of feeling insecure?You may not have felt loved and nurtured as much as you needed.
Some people develop anxiety from missing enough love.
They feel lacking in ability to take care of themselves, similar to the lack of being sufficiently taken care of when younger.
Try understanding if you felt neglected emotionally.
If "yes", then start the slow process of emotionally rewarding and acknowledging yourself.
Progress will be slow.
Eventually you'll stabilize the way you feel toward yourself.
This will gradually result in decreased anxiety.
First, be aware that each end every one of us has anxiety at some point.
That certainly seems to fit what you're describing here, but that doesn't mean you have an anxiety disorder, necessarily.
That's where there is a difference.
Anyone who has a hard time with public speaking or feels uncomfortable in large crowds, for example, is experiencing anxiety.
It sounds like it would be helpful to look at the differences between the days when you are more comfortable on the days that you are not.
If you notice your anxiety is keeping you from doing things that you need or want to do, it may be helpful to talk with and mental health professional.
I wonder also whether your appetite and sleeping patterns are the same or similar to how they were before you experienced this anxiety, when your anxiety started, and whether you feel more comfortable when someone you trust is there with you.
If you have an idea of times or situations in which you feel anxious, consider carrying a small smooth rock or another object that makes you feel calm and centered.
Perhaps you can keep it in your pocket and remember specific comfortable times while you have it in your hand.
Why not accept and tolerate that you naturally are a shy person who doesn't like large groups?This is not necessarily something to get over if it is part of who you are.
People have the capacity to judge others regardless of whether the group is large or small.
If you aren't afraid of being judged in small groups then study the factors which allow you to feel safe in small groups.
Possibly you can generalize your findings to large group venues.
If you try the and aren't successful, then likely you simply aren't naturally someone who cares for large group settings.
Not everything a person doesn't like is a symptom of something is wrong w the person!
Would you worry less if you and your partner had a plan as to when you will be together as a couple?Long distance relationships are not for everybody.
Some people need the daily or frequent interaction to feel secure.
The question is not so much how to deal with anxiety that your partner is cheating on you than whether your own emotional and relationship requirements are satisfied with a long distance relationship.
Anyway, cheating has nothing to do with distance since married people cheat while living together for years under the same roof!
Maybe you are afraid to let go of your problems for a few hours.
Although you didn't write this, usually what keeps people awake or prevents them from falling asleep are worries about certain situations in their lives.
If this describes you then.
maybe talk with yourself to convince you that you are entitled to a good night's sleep.
Really we all are and feeling rested from the day and life's tensions will better you to handle whatever the particular matters are.
Also, maybe you will be more enthusiastic to go to bed if you have a comfy mattress and nice pillows! Make your bed an inviting place because this will tempt you to enjoy relaxing enough to go to sleep!
One approach is to be more accepting of yourself as someone who has fears.
It is much easier to manage a problem when you're not fighting yourself for having a problem.
Once you are willing to accept this quality within yourself you may start to feel a little more relaxed about handling the fears when they arise.
One answer is to examine the facts about the fears.
Ask yourself fact based questions as to how you would handle the worse case scenario of your fears.
Feeling prepared, whether or not the circumstance is highly unlikely to happen, may increase your peace of mind with living the great fears within your mind.
The short answer I could give is that we don't know why it's happening.
The longer answer could come from deeper exploration as to your fears, or anxieties, that you experience maybe just thinking of going outside.
But any sort of exploration about this almost HAS to begin with an agreement within you (and all of your feelings), that's it's not something to be ashamed of.
If we are ashamed of any of our behaviors, then we lose the ability to sit with them and see where they are coming from.
This could be something that can be worked through in therapy, and specifically with a therapist who specializes in anxiety and more specifically, agoraphobia.
There's no such possibility that you're upset for "no reason"!The reason is not obvious, not that you are feeling upset in response to nothing at all.
What can help you feel better is to be kind and gentle with yourself because this sort of approach will more likely relax your mood and mindset enough for the tension and anxiety you feel, to dissipate somewhat.
Try to understand whether certain situations or interactions remind you or feel similar to ones which distressed you before.
This may be the reason for your anxiety.
It is good news that you know the difference between your usual sense of yourself and that you've been away from this feeling.
Give yourself a little credit for understanding yourself.
Giving credit adds confidence and confidence will help you find the reasons and new ways to handle your anxiety.
Hello, and thank you for your question.
Overcoming fears is something that everyone struggles with at one time or another.
Sometimes we come across something that scares us, we push through it and suddenly we aren't afraid anymore.
But sometimes it can seem like our fears just take over and we cannot overcome them.
There are some options: You can go to a counselor and receive some type of treatment.
What kind of treatment would depend on the type of fears you are experiencing.
For example, if you have a general phobia about something, they may use various techniques to help you manage it.
There are different websites and even some self-help books that you can use to try to overcome your fears.
When it comes to overcoming certain fears or phobias, exposure therapy well-studied and proven to work.
A therapist would help you with this, but some websites give instructions for how to do it yourself.
I am not sure how well it works when you try it by yourself, but here is a link to a website that does offer some tools.
You are right.
It is not normal to hear voices that aren't your own but the fact is some people do.
In my experience, medication seem to help.
It is also important to understand when you hear voices the most - meaning it is important to understand what the triggers are.
It is also important to understand when the voices are the least - meaning what helps you deal with the voices better.
My clients have reported that their triggers are being in social gathering or around strangers or for some even the TV.
Trying to identify your triggers is helpful for some people.
Clients have also reported that listening to music, watching TV, being with friend or family helps them deal with their voices.
Every individual is different and you need to figure out what works for you and what triggers your voices.
My suggestion is to see a therapist health care provider and then go from there.
I hope this helps.
Watching children go through challenges in their lives is difficult.
On a very basic level, There exists a primal need to protect them from harm.
The hard part for parents is letting them feel those challenges and working through them as they get older.
At some point, there is a moment that occurs when the role as a parent shifts.
Children no longer need the basics (food, shelter.
water, safety) as much as when they were toddlers, but rather, their needs shift to wanting more support, encouragement, advice, and room to make mistakes.
This is where the ability to communicate with them, letting them direct the sails to gather the wind needed to move, is so important.
Keep the lines of communication open and be available to give feedback when they ask for it.
Sometimes stress helps us become motivated and thrive to do better however, if your daughter is stressing to the point that she is crying and freaking out then that would be concerning.
Helping your daughter with relaxation techniques like deep breathing or guided imagery would be a good start.
Also, reminding your daughter that you see her doing so well in school and that most importantly you are there for her.
I would also make an appointment to see a mental health therapist they can have more ideas on ways to de-stress.
Aye, you're correct, that isn't normal, and maybe you should get her to a doctor!Before you do that, and if she were my daughter, I would provide her the necessary physical support that can be given readily at home; that is: proper natural diet, rest, and a good sense of detoxification before she readies herself to approach it.
Basic listening is warranted here and would be of great use.
As parents, it's hard not to have "freak out" moments when our children are being bullied, stressed, or exhibit other symptoms of teenage angst.
We walk a delicate balance of letting go and giving autonomy to our teens get older.
Adolescents are learning how to be functional adults and it's important to allow them to try (and sometimes fail) in managing their emotions.
Grades are a pretty good indicator of how a student is doing, overall.
If your daughter has a 4.
0 and there's no pattern of "crying and freaking out" I'd offer gentle support and encourage her to find ways to relax when she's stressed.
If her grades start to decline and her crying spells become more frequent, a call to a counselor who specializes in teens might be in order.
Good luck!
I am sorry to hear about your daughter.
Many of the youth I see in my practice are going through similar behaviors and concerns.
If she feels like she can talk to you about this I think that is a great place to begin.
There are many life stressors that youth have to manage and seeing others on social media seems to exacerbate these feelings and can feel like even more pressure to strive for perfection.
You may be able to offer her support by listening to and validating her concerns, reviewing all that she has accomplished and praising her for doing her best and not push that she needs to be "the best.
If she feels she would like to speak to someone it may be good to find a therapist where she can vent her feelings and find a way to increase her coping skills.
She may benefit from additional support outside the home where she can cry, learn to manage her worries and gain skills to triage the expectations of each day.
She may benefit from skills that would help her to learn that she is enough already!
I hear that you are concerned about your daughter's reaction and her emotional well being.
Her behaviors are worry some as you feel she seems to be approaching her breaking point.
I would suggest speaking to your daughter about the situation at school and her feelings.
Listening and acknowledging your daughter's feelings without judgement or giving solutions is a very effective communication skill.
Ask your daughter how she feels about speaking to a therapist or her doctor.
Someone that she knows and feels comfortable talking to about her feelings and learning healthy coping skills to address stressful situations.
It may be helpful to register for a class you can take together.
I would recommend mindful meditation or yoga, just the two of you.
Something you find time for in a weekly basis.
Yoga is amazing in learning mindfulness and reducing stress.
I use yoga and mindful techniques when working with children and recommend it to parents to engage with their children.
Hope this helps.
All you can do control is work on yourself.
When you have enough sense of self, you will know how to deal with your family.
Therapy is an investment in yourself, which affects your family.
Your situation is a difficult one, but I would encourage you to start considering how to set boundaries for yourself and your family members.
Often, times we believe we have to allow a certain behavior because a person is family.
This is not true.
It sounds like you could use some help understanding finding your voice and asserting yourself with your family members.
When their verbal abuse starts, tell them you are exiting the conversation because the way they're talking to you is unacceptable.
Explain you are willing to hear their point of view only not when it is expressed as abuse.
They may not agree with your opinion and also may not want to change.
Even if they do not change, you are entitled to be treated as a human being who is worthy of respect.
Explain your reason to exit the conversation and ask them to write down their requests for you to consider.
It sounds like your children are walking on eggshells, and behaving in a manner that suggests that (at minimum) they may be receiving an undue amount of anger from someone in their lives.
In addition to addressing this delicately with your children's father, it would be wise to speak with your children's teachers and pediatrician as well.
Please closely monitor the situation, and express to your children that they can always come to you with any information, and they will never be in trouble for confiding in you.
The kids are actually her Property, and he does have a claim to them as he wishes;The house is yours, I presume.
So require that if he wishes to see his Property, it be done off of your Property;And, that as long as it remains your Property, you have jurisdiction over all those, therein;Require compensation for visits, and send him a bill;When he doesn't pay, send to the local sheriff, go to small claims court, and win a judgment against him for non-payment;I wonder how that might work out act as man.
At times when a child is not displaying milestone behavior at the same rate that is average for their peers, this should raise concern, so you are correct in reaching out for advice.
Speaking with your child's pediatrician, as well as school staff may be the first places to start.
You can request that she receive an assessment and evaluation, with a subsequent treatment plan to meet any needs she may have.
Kids develop in different ways and different speeds.
It can sometimes feel like your kid has a delay because of these different ways of development.
If you have concerns about your child development then addressing it with the school is the best solution.
They will be able to provide a full assessment if needed with an academic diagnosis as well as academic support.
It sounds like it might be worth asking the school for an evaluation to determine whether your daughter has any learning disabilities such as dysgraphia or dyslexia or seek an evaluation through an educational neuropsychologist.
I would also suggest having her vision checked by a developmental optometrist.
If your daughter is the same age as most of the other students in her class, and the other students easily complete the tasks you list here, then there is a problem in the performance of these tasks for your daughter.
Without knowing more about the context of your daughter's life, for example, is she a new student to the school and class, are there major stressors in the home environment, does your daughter have friends, does your daughter have the same problems she has in school, when she is in other environments?Also, who is telling you she has these problems? Are you the one who notices what you describe here or is your daughter or is her teacher telling you these facts? Depending on your answers to the questions, start to get clarity with the classroom teacher and the school guidance counselor as to the source of your daughter's problem.
Good luck!
There could be a number of things going on here.
For instance, have her eyes been checked by an optometrist? She might just not like writing or coloring.
She could be rushing through assignments so that she can spend time with friends, play games, or do something else.
She might need some extra help with fine motor skills.
What are her grades like? Does she rush through other things like cleaning her room or getting ready for bed?
It's hard to tell from the information that you were able to provide here, but talk with her elementary school a guidance counselor.
Someone working with the school (usually a school psychologist) should be able to evaluate her to see if she needs extra help and to tell you more clearly what may be happening.
Your daughter is fortunate to have an observant parent, who is willing to seek out help in this regard.
Regression can be indicative of some stress in your child's life, so the issues she is facing should be examined.
Seeking advice from your daughter's pediatrician, as well as a practitioner familiar with adolescent issues or perhaps play therapy can equip you with insight into the causes of the behavior, and give you tools to assist your daughter in learning age appropriate social interactions.
How you you expressed your regret and taken responsibility for the pain thus far? Repair is a very essential skill in and part of developing healthy relationships.
Your love sounds deep, sit with that.
Also sit with how she's been hurt.
You get to feel your hurt too and your kids.
In feeling all this you may also find our way to the repair.
If feeling all this is tough to take on, seek out a local therapist to support your process.
Hi, I'm Amelia! Oh, this is a common problem, unfortunately! Let me say first of all, that doing more, giving more, loving more, performing more will never provide you with a sense of worth.
Nor will it satisfy those that are critical and judgmental.
I am so sorry to hear that this is what you've heard all your life! You are a human BEING not a human DOING.
If you can get yourself in counseling with a trusted therapist who will accept you, encourage you, hear you and support you, you can begin to work on what truth worth is.
My best to you!
Wow, you got hit with some serious stuff all at once.
Work, relationships, and housing or security are major needs for us and to lose all that at once has got to affect you.
When things go wrong, it is natural for us to look for blame and the easiest person for us to blame is ourselves.
Put that with grief and you've got a recipe for feeling awful.
We can start feeling so low as to want to check out with things like food, and TV as you described.
It can take time for us to move to self-forgiveness, and self-kindness in order to start moving forward again.
I wonder what you can do right now to improve your situation? I also wonder if you may be willing to seek counseling to help you work through some of this, to help with your perspective, and to assist in your grieving process.
Just reading these 3 sentences, I get the sense of you being a nice person.
I hope you can show that kind of kindness to yourself in your healing.
Please practice being kind to yourself!! You lost your grandmother, your home and your job! Huge changes have just taken place and it would be challenging for anyone to be unfazed.
And having said that, you wrote that you have been looking for a job, so that tells me that you have most definitely not failed yourself.
Try taking it one day at a time.
I encourage you to recognize (and even accept) that you're going through a particularly difficult time and that everything is temporary.
When we are in something, it's difficult sometimes to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
Maybe you could allow yourself the grief that you are feeling, be in the tunnel, and trust that you will come through the tunnel to the other side.
Be gentle and loving to yourself.
You've already taken the first step.
You want to not hate yourself.
Self-acceptance is hard! And it's on a spectrum.
On one side we have self-hate, on the other extreme; self-love.
And then, there is all this stuff in the middle.
It kind of looks like thisAnd working toward self-love often means moving around through all these.
Becoming aware of your emotions, exploring the parts of you you that easier and harder to accept, self-kindness, self-forgiveness, self-compassion and ultimately self-love.
It is a recovery process and has to be an active thing each day.
Meeting with a counselor can give you a partner in that process.
Your counselor can also help you to recognize pieces that may be more difficult to see from your eyes as they have an outside view.
And with self-acceptance, confidence comes naturally although you may need to practice behaviors that show assertiveness, confidence and boundaries that protect you.
Wishing you the absolute best with this!
Self-doubt and self-hatred are such common and unpleasant experiences and really worth understanding! Therapy with the right person can really help.
When in your life do you feel the most confident? What gets in the way of you accepting and loving yourself.
You can and will uncover that confident self!
This happens slowly and can be done.
You already are at the first step of realizing that you hate yourself, not that the feelings of self-loathing are the best of what you're able to expect from life.
A way to start building confidence is to pay close attention to the way you handle interactions and make decisions.
If you start to notice what you'd like from an interaction, and afterwards, reflect on how well you handled yourself, especially with any unexpected circumstances, you'll build confidence in your ability to be good at something.
Do you know why you hate yourself?This answer may help you address within yourself , a new type self talk which has more positives in it than what you've been accustomed to telling yourself.
Congrats on having a happiness problem.
Go slowly and tell your partner how you feel as you discover how being loved feels.
On a deep level you are releasing yourself from interaction patterns which treated you poorly and unkindly.
Time is needed of repeated occurrences of this newfound loving behavior toward you.
Gradually you will trust more and more that your new living relationship life is your reality.
It sounds like there are assumptions being made regarding how she feels about you and why she is with you.
I would not suggest breaking up with her without first attempting to resolve your own issues.
You may not only regret your decision, but might find that the exact same problem arises in future relationships.
I would recommend seeing a therapist who can help you figure out what is at the root of all of this.
By learning about your own insecurities and where they come from, you can expect to discover new ways of responding and relating to others, which will likely impact your relationship in a positive manner.
Are you possibly mixing up an impulse to nurture and protect someone, such as by offering housing, and your own need to feel loved and appreciated as a romantic partner?Maybe your feeling of jealousy is really your awareness of a reasonable need to be loved by a partner.
Even though you are quite detailed in your description of your partner, one piece which is missing, is whether you feel you are loved by her.
Maybe too, what she considers your insecurity, is really her unwillgness to love you.
It's always easier to put distance between two people by insulting them.
I hope this gives you a few new ways to look at your situation.
A few therapy sessions, either by yourself or together w your gf, would give you more chance to know more deeply what it is you are facing.
This is an understandable response to early childhood trauma and loss.
Often times when we have overwhelming or difficult experiences as a child including poor care giving, the ways we managed and the feelings we had then show up in our lives as adults.
Especially when we get close to someone, it mirrors our early experiences with caregivers in early life.
So our body, nervous system, and emotions respond in the same way.
They feel as if what we experienced when we were little is happening now and they go into full force to manage and protect us.
Sometimes the ways that happens can feel pretty bad and we can stuck in these loops of old beliefs about ourselves.
Therapy is a great way to interrupt these patterns, process the early experiences, and be able to be in the present with your current relationships.
It is very possible to shift this cycle and also have meaningful healing from the experiences that caused so much hurt and distress from childhood.
You may have reached the natural end point of working very hard in school and putting up with bullies or not knowing how to step to the side of people who bully you.
Both conditions you have been living under, pressure to perform well in school, and the tension of someone bullying you, are quite draining.
Now is probably time to recuperate from your emotional ordeal.
Hobbies may be a little too lighthearted and distracting from the more major task of grounding yourself in feeling secure and settled, especially after such arduous effort academically and socially.
Let your natural self guide you.
If right now you need to simply grow strong again, then allow this process to slowly develop.
Eventually all on its own when the time is right, you will find a hobby.
Now is your time to trust yourself to live the rhythms of your life.
One way may be to take some sort of physical movement class in which you will be regarded by the teacher as one of the students, not the girl who weighs a certain amount.
In a movement class such as pilates, yoga, aerobics, weights, dance, when the standard for clothing is somewhat fitted and shows more of our physical bodies than regular clothing, and to be considered as one of the students, not stigmatized for how much or how little you weigh, may help you be as accepting of yourself as the teacher is of you!
I also want to note that we, as a society, are especially judgemental about how women dress and present themselves.
I am sorry that this boy said something insensitive.
There is nothing shameful about your body and it was not your intention to display everything.
It also wasn't his place to judge you.
As women we are expected to be sexy in some situations and demure in others.
Men don't have the same range of societal expectations to navigate.
You didn't deserve his rudeness.
Everybody does something or a few things in their life which looking back, the person wishes they hadn't.
The key to feeling better is to realize that as long as you learn something for the future from your mistake, then you will be doing all that any human being is capable of doing.
Your mistake sounds genuine, not that you were deliberately trying to create a stir or harm yourself or anyone.
Now that this student in your class pointed out your mistake, you will learn to notice the appearance of your swimwear.
Put in context that feeling foolish for doing something embarrassing means that overall, you generally do most activity in your life, in non-foolish ways.
The incident would only bother someone who generally is responsible.
The mistake is a contrast with what is usual behavior for you.
I hope you'll enjoy swimsuit shopping and find a beautiful bargain!
Sometimes we let our insecurities get the best of us, causing us to make some interesting choices.
Honesty is always the best policy, but honesty comes with risk.
Perhaps you may want to start with your family first, explaining to them what you have done and why.
Perhaps they can help you to practice talking about your insecurities with your friends.
Another way is to start, slowly, to dress more and more like yourself and your true body shape.
Some of your "friends" may make fun of you, true, but then you must ask yourself.
why do you want to be friends with people like that?
Wear baggy clothes to disguise the problem and if you do this for a long enough time, then your friends may forget what size boobs you have.
Can you tell your parents what you wrote here? If yes, then maybe they will be empathetic and this always helps.
They may also agree to not make any comments about your boobs when you wear the bigger bra around your friends when they visit you at home.
Also, its possible your friends already have questioned why you wore a bigger bra than your boobs.
Maybe they saw what was going on the whole time during the school year and felt too awkward to tell you.
It sounds like you have the perception that people are frequently disappointed in you, wish you were different or someone else, and ultimately reject you.
One question I would have for you is what is your evidence that people feel this way? Is there anything in people's words or behaviors that gives you this impression? If your not sure, it may be useful for you to try to notice what people say and do in response to you, even though you perceive these attitudes within them.
Additionally, working with a competent therapist may be a great way to get an answer to your question as well as developing ways to move forward with that answer and gain a sense of self-esteem and security in your relationships.
One possibility that comes to mind, of which there may be more, is that as we grow up, we often develop relational templates, or sets of expectations about how people are and will relate to us, which influence our experiences and behavior in relationships.
Sometimes the templates that we develop to stay connected growing up are not particularly adaptive for adult life and can hamper our self-esteem and capacity for comfortable intimacy as an adult.
You ask a great question here, and one that can be very hard to see through, given the difficulty of feeling that people think of you in this way, and I hope that you will stay curious about this and consider working with a therapist who is trained to help you discover the answer.
I want to add that one way therapy can help with social anxiety is to give you a corrective experience.
Each week, you sit across from someone who genuinely cares about you, who doesn't judge you, and who you can voice your concerns to.
Over time, you show them more and more of yourself, and as they get to know you, they still care about you, they still don't judge you, and they still think you are amazing.
Find a therapist you connect with.
It does sound like your roommate may have a drinking problem, and the short answer is that you can't do anything about it, only she can.
We can't change what other people say, think, or do.
We can only change our reactions.
It does sound like your roommate may be having a hard time.
You can suggest that she enter counseling or therapy.
You can reassure her that you like her if that's true, but you don't have to pity her.
A lot of times it is not about forgiveness but learning from experiences.
As an example, as a child we continously fall in an effort to learn how to walk.
Then when we begin walking we know we have to put one foot in front of the other in order to move forward.
Experiences allow us to grow, find a balance and what to do and what not to do in order to move forward.
On the positive side you now know the consequences as for your actions not to take the same course.
Forgiveness comes with time as you learn how to walk again.
This can be a very difficult question to answer.
Without knowing anything else about the situation - it makes me wonder - what makes you feel like you should break up with him? What brought up thinking about ending things? It will be important to decide if the relationship is safe, if it is healthy, and if it makes you both happy.
Are there reasons you are staying in the relationship that don't make you feel good? It might be helpful to write things out or talk to a trusted friend about what each of your choices means.
What would it be like to end things? What would it be like to stay? Are there issues that the two of you can work on to make the relationship better?
This is a very personal decision that you make when you have evaluated the issues in your couple that you feel are affecting your happiness and well being in your couple.
I recommend completing a compatability checklist to evaluate which areas are making you unhappy.
It is important to discuss these feelings with your partner and determine if together you want to work on these differences.
If there is no agreement to working together to resolve the issues and you cannot accept the issues as they are then a break up may be best.
This can be a very challenging decision, and it may take time for you to sort through all of your feelings about the relationship and its possible end.
Therapy can help you have a space to be completely honest with yourself about your relationship as you grapple with your decision of whether to remain with your boyfriend.
Your therapist can ask questions to guide you in uncovering your true feelings about whether this is the right relationship for you, and he or she can support you in whatever decision you come to.
That's a loaded question.
Typically, if we are contemplating if we should or not, it is for a reason.
To really come to a place of decision, you need to know where you are right now, what is not working, what the potential resolution would be and if it is realistic.
If you can answer those questions, you may gain some insight.
If it is realistic and your boyfriend is on the same page, seek help putting a plan in motion for resolution.
And I mention him being on the same page because if he is not, then it will never come to fruiting.
Without much other information, this is this is a solid approach.
Deciding to end a relationship is never easy, especially if there is not any strong reason or incident standing out to help define the unhappiness in the relationship, such as infidelity or abuse.
All relationships go through low periods where one or both people may feel unhappy in the relationship, this is normal.
What I tell my clients when they are facing this decision is to spend some time and imagine your life without the person in it.
What do you feel when you imagine your life without your boyfriend? Do you see yourself as being happier, having more freedom? When you think of life without him do you feel a weight lift off your shoulders? Is it easier to breathe? Don't rush into any decision about leaving the relationship.
Take as much time as you need to fully understand what it is you are feeling right now.
Ask yourself if some of the unhappiness in the relationship can change, if it is likely to change.
Only when you are confident in your decision to leave should you then have the discussion about leaving the relationship.
I hope this answer gives you some ways of thinking through how to make that very tough decision.
That you are questioning if you should end your relationship with your boyfriend tells me that you are unhappy with him.
Spend sometime by yourself exploring the reasons for that unhappiness.
Are these things likely to change or not?
Without knowing the details, it would be very difficult to say! But, that's also the point of my response.
Because even with the details, it's very hard to say, as no one is experiencing the relationship in your shoes, except for you.
It might be helpful to process this in therapy, or with your boyfriend directly and voice your concerns about the relationship.
In any successful relationship, the research has shown that openness in communication is vital.
That all being said, I would also add, with a lot of curiosity.
If you have to ask the question, does that say something about what you feel is the quality of the relationship?
If you're asking the question, then probably you are pretty close to ending your relationship.
Make a list of what you don't like and then decide whether you'd like to tell these topics to your boyfriend as a discussion about your relationship.
He may have similar feelings and together the two of you may figure out new ways to be loving with each other.
If you've presented your needs and no change results, then ask yourself if you can be happy with him, given what you now realize about him and your feelings.
There is always hope.
So don't give up on hope.
However, you knew I would say that, there is a lot work ahead of you.
You need to see someone to talk things out.
Get some space between you and your husband.
Don't chase and please don't stalk him.
Do some deep searching as to why he left and what part you had to cause the split.
You can't change him but you are in control of your own change.
With the help of a professional counselor you can get help and direction where you need to change.
I believe there's always hope.
I also believe that you are worthy of respect and love.
I'm curious if you felt loved, cherished, and respected by your husband during your time together.
Feeling willing to go to any extreme to save the marriage is common, but having to do things that go against your values sets you up to develop a lot of resentment.
It sounds like you did not want to be separated from your husband, but now that it's happened, you can make the choice to focus on yourself, rediscovering, or discovering for the first time, what you really want out of life.
Taking some time to grieve the loss of your marriage and practice self-care can help in the immediate aftermath.
Are there dreams that you put on a shelf during your marriage that you could reignite? By considering the dreams and desires you had at the beginning of your marriage, you might find some direction for what to do next.
I would focus on YOU right now.
We cannot control him, his actions, his love, or his decisions.
But we can work on you.
Think about a few things: What do you want? What do you love about him? What made you two separate? What do you think about being in a relationship where your partner does not love you? Does that seem fair? He may want to work things out or he may be done.
He may be done for a short period of time or be done forever.
No one can answer that which is why I think you should change the focus.
If you do get back together, will you still trust him to not leave you? What if he does not love you?If you never get back together, can you still have a healthy, happy life? Can you mourn that relationship but also learn from it?I want you to be strong, happy, and healthy with or without him.
So yes, there is hope for you - with or without him.
Most important is to take care of your feelings regarding that he has left you.
From your description there doesn't seem to be much hope your husband would like to keep the marriage going.
Has a long time passed since the two of you separated? Sometimes, and really this is very rare, people decide to return to their marriage.
If he impulsively decided to leave and now is a short while since he did this, then there is some hope he will decide to stay together.
If he's been out of the house for a while and tells you what you wrote, then there is greater chance he's had time to think through to split and will follow through.
As painful as it is to hear that someone with whom you'd like to be, doesn't want to be with you, accepting your hurt feelings will eventually let you come to peace with your feelings.
To keep hoping against the facts of what he's said to you, only makes your own pain intensify.
Who takes care of your son, is a significant part of getting over your heartbreak.
If you made reasonable custody terms re your son then the relationship heartache is much easier to recover from than if your mother vanished from his life, or if the mother wants nothing to do w him.
Re the actual relationship, let yourself feel sad and hurt since this is the truth.
Usually life gradually fills in new people, including a relationship once you feel strong enough from having endured such sadness and loss.
I recognize that you say you are missing being with the love of your life.
At the same time, I don't understand whether you are able to see your son.
I'm curious as to the relationship dynamic between you and your son's mother.
When you say that she never looked back, I imagine you are conveying that getting back together is not something that she is interested in.
I would suggest that you talk with a therapist and your local area so that you have the ability to discuss the loss of this person who you love so much.
Most people think of grief related to the loss of someone who has died, But it also applies to people who have a significant loss, whether that is a relationship, a job, or any number of other things.
In the meantime, try finding something about yourself that you value and can focus on.
My answer is yes, you should tell her because you have a child with her.
She is the mother of your son, and this new baby would be his half sister.
I think telling her is mature and appropriate.
Usually procrastinating just makes it worse.
Another thing to consider.
Would you want her to tell you if she was pregnant with her boyfriends baby? Hope this helps, take care!
What you're most likely trying to get over is to be attracted to the qualities which you felt attracted to in the person.
The problem isn't releasing yourself from the person, per se.
Letting go of a person means separating yourself from the qualities in a partner which you value.
Two possibilities exist.
Either you continue to feel strongly that the qualities in the past relationship are still meaningful and you'd like to base your next relationship on these qualities.
Or, the person had qualities which are no longer relevant or necessary in your life and this is the reason the relationship ended.
It is possible that even if you had an adequate exposure to certain qualities in someone that you simply miss the companionship of a relationship.
See if you can figure out whether you need the qualities this person gave you or whether you simply like being part of a couple.
If you like the particular qualities of your previous parter and these are still relevant to your life, you'll attract a partner who has similar qualities.
Basically people attract what they need.
The more open you are to attracting what you need in a partner, the more likely your next partner will have these qualities.
In this way, you'll get over the particular person and still have the satisfaction to be in a relationship.
What if we think about this in metaphor: imagine a dirt road suddenly paved over - where before it was small, once paved, it was faster, smoother and suddenly you, the driver, knew what real driving could feel like.
Then your road got a pothole: now, every time you drive, you hit that hole, and it only seems to get worse, the more you drive over it.
Until that hole is patched - until you choose to fill your heart with either love for another or love for yourself - you might find it challenging to keep driving on your road.
Instead of letting go of how you felt, try to hang on to that feeling, just direct it inwards: you've shared you're capable of feeling strongly for another, surely, you're worthy of that same regard?
There is no wrong or right way to define a relationship.
I believe each relationship we are in is an opportunity to expand and to know self on a deeper level.
We are conditioned to believe that we are not valued, or worth much without the confirmation of others and the world around us.
Give yourself time and try to not go to those who are toxic and enjoy the drama of others lives as s way to avoid looking at themselves.
Love is a deep and nuanced feeling so start to accept that a simple cutting of emotional connection isn't possible.
Honor the love you felt for this person.
Acknowledgement of your love feelings will most likely help you find a dignified way to accept them while at the same time slowly developing new ways to live your life in a way which does not include the actual person.
Your feelings will always belong to you.
The newly discovered sense of how love feels will be with you and positively influence all your relationships.
There is a benefit to feeling loved even if it is not forever in this lifetime.
Also, your partner opened your feelings, the feelings which showed in fact already were within you.
He opened the door and this door belongs to you.
I hope you will find ways to appreciate having been loved and to be open that your feelings of being loved are a positive influence in all your relationships.
What a burden for you!Your husband cannot seem to make up his mind on his viewpoint and doesn't seem to care whether or not you're affected by speaking out of two sides of his mouth.
Keep yourself protected emotionally from him.
There's no good which can come by arguing with a person who flips their position.
Live as separately as possible from him and stick to roommate type matters such as groceries, bill paying and housecleaning as discussion topics.
If he cannot make sense of what he thinks and feels, then certainly you will face similar difficulty trying to do so!
Hello! Emotions run high in "crush" situations and when emotions run high it's not uncommon for us to have emotion-based instead of fact-based thoughts.
After reading your question, I wondered how you went from "making out" to "nothing happened"? I wondered if this happened because of an emotion-based thought that sounded like If he liked me, he would make something happen.
A truer and more empowering thought might be "I want something different to happen with him and I want to take a different action to see if that can happen".
This thought focuses more on the one thing you can control: YOU.
Hopefully, the thought also empowers you to think through what you can do to gauge interest/talk with him about his feelings on the matter.
I hope this helps and good luck to you!
The offspring are your Property;If you require that no other man show inappropriate content to them, then require compensation for use and enjoyment of your Property, without your consent;Send them a bill;When they do not pay it, activate the local Sheriff, take them to small claims court, and win a judgment against them for failure to compensate for the use and enjoyment of your Property;I wonder what might happen after that learn to act as man  and watch the magic happen.
From what you write, it sounds like you're reaching quite far into your child's father's way to handle his friendships.
There's a difference between an agreement between you and the child's father to not view porn, and with you monitoring and setting standards for your child's father's way to handle his social life.
Try to accept the limits of your request extends to you and the child's father, not the way the child's father wants to handle his relationships with other people.
Also, pushing too hard or setting your expectations of the child's father too wide for him to tolerate may end up backfiring on you.
Who knows, maybe he'll decide "enough is enough" and withdraw from the otherwise reasonable agreement to not watch porn.
In my book, this is a boundary issue.
Although you do not like inappropriate content, it is not up to you what your child's father looks at or what his friend sends him.
It is really hard not to monitor other people's lives, but in the end, your rights begin and end with you.
It sounds like you are wanting to protect your child from degrading images and that is one of the important parts of the job of a parent.
Although it is challenging to supply an answer without knowing the full situation, it might be helpful to have a more broad discussion about what you both think about the influences and images that your child is exposed to and what you think your role is in protecting your child.
This situation is one about beliefs and values and could well be an example you can use for exploring your parenting roles in protecting your child.
This interaction with your boss seems strange.
It is tricky to know how to handle workplace conflicts, but there are typically resources in place to help employees and mangers communicate successful and feel confident that they are being treated fairly at work.
Is there an HR department that you can use as a mediator?
I think it's important to tease more of this situation out to figure out what is at the root of the stress.
It is emotionally dangerous to be at a job for a lengthy duration in which you feel overworked and underpaid.
You will not perform well as you mention, and thus your self-esteem will continually take a hit without really any effort.
So, I don't know that simply coping with your stress would be advisable as a first step.
Hello.
Workplace stress is one of those areas of living that troubles many people who need an income to survive.
The interactions between you and coworkers is a mixed bag, and sorting that out can be difficult.
Also, if you are feeling under appreciated and not well paid, this can add bitterness to your lot of emotions.
A few questions can be kept in mind as you work through your situation.
Do you have the option of talking to your employer about your experiences and feelings with regard to your current work? Do you have local resources that you can use to find different jobs in your field? Do you have connections with employment counselors or agencies that can support you with strategies in dealing with workplace stress? These questions might cause others to bubble up, and could begin a new journey into a new field.
While still at your job, what can you do to take care of yourself? Are you taking breaks? Do you eat lunch at the office, or do you go somewhere away from the office to eat? What do you do when you have a few moments to breathe? Understanding that you can indeed find even the smallest strategies useful for self-care, can help bolster your energy and give you some support as you move through the day.
Seeking the support of family and friends can be helpful as well.
Knowing your personal limits and when to pull back and take a break will give you a chance to recharge your mental and physical energy, thus helping you face the demands of your job.
It sounds like you are experiencing burnout and have very little, if no job satisfaction.
There are some aspects of this that are in your control and others that are not.
What type of work do you typically enjoy? Do you enjoy high stress work? What keeps you in this job? Is there a reason you have stayed? Is your boss reasonable to have a conversation with? I recommend a few things.
For one, you may want to have a discussion with your boss about your job duties and see if there is a way to either eliminate some responsibilities or get higher pay.
Another option, if you are unable to have an open conversation, you can start to look at an ideal work situation, what would you like be OK with absolutely hate about a job.
Then possibly try to look for a new job that fits these qualifications.
If you are unable to leave your job, you may want to attempt to balance your work life with more activities that create joy outside of work.
Sometimes that balance can help you tolerate work more.
I recommend that you find a supportive person to talk with and process these frustrations as burnout can lead us to do things we may regret.
Recognize your reason for continuing to work for this place.
Sometimes "overworked and underpaid" is tolerable bc of the valuable learning which the person will take with them when they've decided the time has come for these lessons to end.
Or, are you in this place bc it is an easy commute to your home or fits well with other parts of your life such as education or some health related program?As long as you have a good reason to be there, you will feel there is good purpose.
If there is no good purpose and every day you wake up to work for a place you can't stand, then its time to look for a new position.
There are many possible ways dating your boss could go awry and jeopardize your occupational well-being so my recommendation is to hold off on presenting your boss with a personalized gift and instead focus on building attraction and romantic interest with someone who is not at the workplace.
Sometimes the element of power and unavailability can heighten our sexual interest but that doesn't mean it's a healthy idea to pursue someone who is in a position of power over you at your workplace.
Human attractions can be tricky things, and in this case - a power dynamic.
In the workplace, a boss usually has the power to hire, fire, set schedules, approve vacations, and evaluate performance.
Because of this power dynamic, most employee handbooks expressly forbid supervisors and their direct employees being in a romantic relationship.
Perhaps you should check your employee handbook.
It is possible that if you or your supervisor act on your feelings, one of you might have to be reassigned, or if no reassignment is available, asked to resign.
While you may be attracted to your boss, and your feelings may be strong, it might be in your best interests to resist acting upon them.
You may not get her to understand your point of view with any more success than your wife is having with you to do the same.
It is possible you are a balanced couple in the sense of neither one of you understanding the other.
The deeper question to ponder is whether each of you can accept the other person even though you each have very different terms for defining "cheating".
You will find either there are enough strong similarities to keep the two of you happy as a couple, or there aren't these similarities.
Then, the new question would be whether either of you want to address your findings or not.
Here is the truth: You will never get her to understand! because that would mean changing her and we can't change other people we can only change ourselves.
I would recommend to take the time to self reflect on what exactly it is that you are doing that is contributing to the mixup.
You both have very valid feelings and those won't magically go away until you address the root problem (which could be many factors).
I am curious to know more about past relationships the both of you have had and how that plays a role in your current relationship.
Many times we don't realize how past relationships truly impact our current behaviors.
Getting your first job is an exciting, terrifying, and challenging experience.
It is something you will remember for a long time and it shapes how you begin to think about yourself as a worker.
You are literally "learning as you go" in this completely new environment.
You are going to make mistakes.
You are not going to get it right the first time.
It can be even more challenging if you are having a difficult time building relationships that are supportive at work.
How sad for you!I'm sorry your first job is turning into a place of tension.
Did the matter between you and your boss get resolved?Do you feel respected by your boss and does she listen to your point of view, even if afterwards, she disagrees?Keep an open mind over the next several weeks or few months on how you feel in your new work situation.
Expect to be treated fairly and reasonably.
If this is not the way you feel most of the time, then consider finding a new place to work.
If this is a concern of a few coworkers, make sure it is not something they see but you don't admit to.
Employers can "suggest" or something "stipulate" in continued employment with them for you to go to their Employment Assistance Provider (EAP) if they have noticed the same behavior and concerned of how it is effecting productivity or employee relationships.
No one wants to work in a environment which they consider hostile.
Employers can be held responsible if they do not take action.
Couple of things you can do.
Ask a coworker in which you trust and respect if what others are saying is true?Seek professional help from your primary care provider or counselor if mood swings do exist.
It sounds like you have mixed feelings and motivations - which is understandable.
On the one hand you want to get over him, on the other you are still holding out hope for something more.
It will be really hard to let go of him and create friend boundaries so long as there is a part of you holding on to the idea of something more.
If you are being really honest with yourself you might need to acknowledge that you are not really striving to get him out of your system - that you have not really given up hope of having a relationship with him.
If you are whole-heartedly committed to moving past the sexual and romantic parts of your relationship and just having a friendship than refraining from all the touching would be a good place to start.
It is hard to "just be friends" when all your sex and bonding hormones are coursing through your veins.
It sounds like a tricky situation.
If you want to maintain your friendship and continue to have regular contact with him, getting over him may not be possible.
What makes it even trickier is that his actions (hugs and touching) may be misleading and are allowing you to believe that a romantic relationship is possible.
Some ways in which we naturally get over others are when we fall in love with someone else or when we suddenly see the person we like in a more negative or unattractive light.
If you truly want to force yourself to get over him, cutting contact or setting strict boundaries may be necessary.
If you don't see him, over time you can begin to forget about him.
If you set boundaries by discontinuing to allow the hugs and touches, you will not feel mislead or have the idea in your mind that he is being flirtatious or interested.
It would be difficult to continue the relationship as is and expect your feelings to change.
Thus, being proactive by talking to him about boundaries or cutting contact with him are two things you can do that will likely help you to get over him.
Good luck!
Generally, the ethical codes only prohibit relationships with clients.
There are however a few types of counselor-to-counselor relationships that are prohibited by the ethics codes.
Such prohibited relationships include those between supervisors and supervisees; between professors and students; or any time the relationship might negatively impact your (or their) clients.
Lastly, some workplaces have rules against dating coworkers.
It would be a good idea to check if there is such a rule that applies to you.
What exactly is it that you are looking for? Different people define themselves in different ways.
For example, one person may define himself by his values and morals while another identifies herself by her personality and characteristics.
Still, another person may define himself by his interests and hobbies.
Learning who you are as a person can take time and life experience.
At the same time, who you are may change according to what experiences you have had and how you have dealt with them or felt about them.
Try viewing the journey of finding yourself as exciting and ongoing.
Allow yourself to feel emotions and learn how they relate to the experiences you have.
This may help you to know more about what you value, what you like and dislike, and what you want for yourself in life.
Best of luck to you!
Three years ago I attended a week long meditation retreat.
By the fifth day I noticed I was light headed and felt very strange.
I began to realize within my own being an experience of no separation.
I would see others at the retreat and smile.
I loved them all.
I could feel the connection with this awareness I had read about but never truly understood until that moment.
I remember understanding all the teachings I had learned throughout my life about a god who existed outside of me.
I realized I had all these answeres within my own being and so did everyone else.
I began to see everyone as not just capable but powerful loving beings.
Since this experience it has been my desire for everyone to become conscious within whatever experience they wish.
I do this in many ways.
At our studio we combine Mental Health with yoga and meditation as well as nutrition counseling to help people come to their optimal selves.
To truly come into a state of "finding yourself", is to start to know and own who you are from a state of solid being.
In this there is nothing new under the sun, and it is very simple.
I would love to teach you and anyone interested in coming into a state of awake conciousness.
The more awake we are the more joyful we are.
I live in this state of being and demonstrate it in my daily life.
Therapy may be an effective way for you to get a stronger sense of who you are.
A competent therapist will work to create a safe and curious therapeutic relationship in which you can explore your identity.
There are also many different exercises which you can do in and out of therapy which you may find helpful in this area as well.
This quiet wonder that you have is something you can easily explore.
There is a part of you that you can access anytime, anywhere.
It is the part that has always been with you.
Find a quiet place where you can be alone for a while and get comfortable.
Settle in.
Let your thoughts go by like a river.
Stay with that connection for a while.
What you find in the silence is yours alone, your "you".
Start by giving yourself enough quiet and time to remember about yourself what feels steady and consistent in your nature and interactions with others.
Give yourself the freedom to your interest in having interests.
Are you motivated because of competing with others or because an activity itself feels satisfying?If you are able to develop a sense of defining yourself without fear of judging yourself, you will start coming close to knowing who you are.
Because you put this under the category of spirituality, I'm not sure whether you are asking how you find yourself as far as religious or spiritual beliefs or overall.
If you are talking about learning more about religious or spirituality, consider either going to or speaking with someone who is involved with a nondenominational church service (the Salvation Army usually has something) so you can discuss questions or ideas that you may have.
As far as finding yourself in general, I suggest considering what makes you happy and/or comfortable.
I also wonder if looking at the list of values here may be helpful to you.
This is perhaps the deepest question that one can ask of themselves and the answer is as elusive as the deepest enigma.
We are fluid beings, we are never the same from day to day, we learn or unlearn, we evolve or some of us even devolve, we are in a state of constant flux, changing and adapting, like a cloud in the sky that has its shape changed by the wind, life whittles us away and carves us constantly, trying to understand this question is like trying to bite your own teeth, however we can have a sense of what we would call our core and to understand the core, we need to live and to experience, but also to think deeply, analytically, and critically, by engaging with life we get a sense that we are like the Earth itself, inside of us there is a core, just as there is inside our planet but our continents shift and change over time, like those continents so does our own nature shift throughout our lives.
Desire to inhabit the opposite sex's body derives from too fast of a re-entry into a new (feminine) body, after being released in a previous life, from an old (masculine) body.
You remember the previous life's connection with the masculine experience and body, and wish to find a way to be more comfortable.
We will approach this matter, spiritually, and I reckon you'll feel a great deal better.
It is really important for you to be comfortable with your identity.
With that said, it is also so important for you to be safe.
It may be helpful for you to find supports (in your life, community, or online) that you can talk about how you feel and potentially gain supportive persons if your family does not accept you.
It will be really important to connect with others and even a counselor to help you.
Chances are your family already knows, they are probably just waiting on confirmation from you to say it.
A parent knows their child.
Spirituality for those in the LGBTQ community can be one of the more difficult roads.
Unfortunately, many unjustly ostracize members of the LGBTQ community away from faith and spirituality.
I believe that folks can embrace the identity that is genuine to them, and still maintain their spiritual beliefs! Briefly, the keys are to first monitor how we allow those in our life to influence our thoughts and emotions.
We need to create standards and boundaries to protect ourselves.
We also need to not project the judgment of other people onto our individual spiritual beliefs! There are many ways in which to tackle this effort!
Ultimately, to suppress your natural identity will work against you.
However difficult, painful, frightening, it is to tell your family about your discovery about who you are, trying to avoid your own truth will do you harm eventually.
One way to make this conversation easier for yourself is to prepare yourself for the outcomes you expect and know will be difficult.
Take as much time as you need to accept the potential rejection because this way iff and when it comes you will be better able to handle it.
You might ask your fiance about people who have let him down in the past; past hurts from parents, friends, people he has dated.
If you are speaking about jealousy he may come from a divorced parent upbringing, may have seen parents cheat on one or the other, may have had partners cheat on him in the past.
He may have fears that you may go off the "straight and narrow" once you get married.
Listen to any concerns with patience and understanding, avoid being defensive.
I would highly encourage pre-marital counseling to explore these things and individual counseling for himself to work on fears and anxieties.
If he refuses and things do not improve I would consider postponing the wedding, things will not get better once you get married, only magnified.
Finally show him Bible passages about forgiveness and worry and leaning on God with faith and hope for the future.
God bless.
You are right that his insecurities are at the root of the issue.
You cannot change that for him.
He will have to do the work to handle those emotions on his own.
What you can do is reassure him in whatever ways possible, but always recognizing that you can't "fix" this for him.
When I work with people who struggle with their partner's past experiences, I always frame it like this: Everything that you've experienced has resulted in you being the person you are today.
The person they claim to love.
If you had not gone through some of those experiences, you would not be in the position you're in now, ready to commit to him and know that you're satisfied with that.
Just as when bad things happen to us, we have to find a way to appreciate the lessons learned your fiance has to accept that you're the person you are today because of what you have gone through.
Celebrate that you have moved through that and have landed in this perfect position with him!Hope that helps,Allison.
Your patience with his pace of accepting your past, is the factor most in your control in this situation.
Everyone accepts a new understanding at their own particular rate.
Yours may be faster than his pace.
Since it is possible he may accelerate his pace of accepting your past if he knows that this is a priority for you, tell him about your own discomfort .
Even if knowing how you feel does not motivate him to a quicker pace of accepting your past, you will have the peace of mind to know you gave him all the information you possibly had to give.
Sometimes we have difficulty keeping the past in the past.
The best way to build a great relationship and have a great future, believe it or not, is to be firmly placed in the present.
That means that when we stay in the moment with our partner and can notice what we are experiencing in the here and now we reap the best benefits of that relationship.
We notice the good things that are happening in the moment.
We are reacting to what we are experiencing in the moment, not reacting to a worry about the past.
We notice, especially, who the person is right now and not who they were in the past.
We can connect with the things we love about them, too.
I think it is great that you want to help him and the choice to stay in the present and move forward in the relationship will mostly be up to him.
We cannot change another person.
It sounds like couples counseling might be a great step for you because you can both learn the skills you need to stay in the present and also learn some helpful "active listening" skills so that you can really listen to one another and understand each other.
Communication skills can really be helpful.
You can both have the opportunity to hear each other and support each other.
We cannot change the past, but we can create the future we want.
Best of luck to you both!
Thanks for posting.
This is a significant issue for many people and can make us feel helpless; among other emotions due to the uncertainty.
You said that, at times, you feel like everyone is lying.
Ask yourself some of these questions.
What is it that makes you feel so strongly that they are lying? Where is the concrete evidence that they are lying? How could I test my thoughts about this? What if things are not what they seem on the surface? Am I any lesser of a person as a result of this person's behavior or opinion? Our beliefs about ourselves and the people and our world and how we interpret information and experiences have a significant effect on how we feel and how we behave.
It is important to objectively challenge the beliefs that contribute to negative emotions.
You can start this process by answering some of the above questions.
We are unfortunately influenced by what and who we associate with.
As it pertains to if God is a lie; be honest with yourself and question your beliefs that tell you that God is or is not real.
It may be helpful for you to speak to a preacher or chaplain of some sort and they can help you with a lot of that.
Hope this helps at least a little bit.
It is not a stupid question, it is very basic.
To help answer your question, let me begin with the premise that you will never have absolute proof.
With that being said, one can look at different phenomena in nature and history and figure what is the statistical probability that they happened randomly.
If one comes to the logical conclusion that many are quite improbable, then there must be a guiding force and plan.
May you be successful in your journey.
I'm not a super religious person.
But I can't imagine that if you love him that much and you want him that much, that he wouldn't be the one for you because of something small like that.
Sex is an act of love and commitment.
If you feel that you want to be with this person for the rest of your life, want to marry them, then why should you have to wait until marriage? If you truly feel that this is the person you want to be with, then why would you need to wait until marriage if you're just showing commitment to each other?
Having sex with your boyfriend is and was a mistake.
Mistakes can be forgiven and you can make amends.
But it is not the end of your relationship or God's will for you.
Have a serious talk with your guy and get back on track with where you want to be.
Talk to a counselor or your priest/pastor.
Get someone to be your guide and mentor.
Check in with them regularly.
Getting back to square one could actually strengthen your relationship.
Have a plan for the future where you will not be put into a place of temptation.
Group dates, public places and no alone time where temptations might arise.
Forgive yourself and move on.
